List of Transcripts

Contents

1 Pre-Show
2 Part I
3 Break
4 Part II
5 Cooldown


Pre-Show[]
MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. 
TALIESIN: Play Dungeons & Dragons! 
MARISHA: We play Dungeons & Dragons! 
TALIESIN: Yeah! 
MARISHA: (growls) (pounding) 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: Really sallow beginning tonight, but today's sponsor is "Rawmen," a new multiplayer four-v-four food-fighting arena battler game available for play for free through Epic Games Store. Sam? Wait-- Okay, so where is everyone? 
MARISHA: Matt, "Rawmen" is a game where you fling food in a food-fight tournament. So, Sam... 
MATT: Let me guess. Sam is encouraging the cast to fling food at him while you read the copy. 
MARISHA: That is absolutely correct. 
MATT: Cool. 
MARISHA: So let's cut away to the live satellite footage of Sam and the rest of the cast. ♪ (tuba melody) ♪ ♪ (jaunty whistled melody) ♪ 
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. Lovingly crafted by a small indie team, "Rawmen" lets you battle in a tournament where every weapon is an absurd kitchen concoction. In a distant future, a warrior class of cooks go head-to-head at tournaments across the globe while a broth-thirsty corporate mastermind, Biff Bouillon, pulls their strings. Players go against each other as teams of four leading to pure multiplayer fun with less stress and hostility. It's customizable and features voice acting by some of your favorite Twitch broadcasters. Pretty crazy. 
MATT: Mm! 
MARISHA: "Rawmen" is out now and is made for everyone. Play it on PC for free on the Epic Games Store. Visit rawmen dot-- Visit rawmengame.com/cr. Nailed it at the end. 
MATT: You got it. Taliesin, why didn't you throw food at Sam? 
TALIESIN: Oh, I do not get pulled by that man's fucking strings. Fuck that. 
MATT: Fair. 
MARISHA: And, producers, I promise that you won't have to, (chuckles) you won't have to clean that up. 
TALIESIN: Yes, you do. 
MARISHA: Matt, back to you. 
MATT: Okay, well, thanks for sending it back to me. Marisha, you're the first announcement. 
MARISHA: (laughs) I am. 
MATT: Back to you. 
MARISHA: (laughs) I'm so alone. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: It's so cold. It feels weird not having people hype up-- 
TALIESIN: Tonight! 
MARISHA: What I'm saying. Tonight! 
TALIESIN: It's the final episode! 
MATT: There it is. Let's go. 
MARISHA: It's the final installment! 
TALIESIN: Of our three-part story of Downfall! 
MARISHA: That's true! Next Thursday, we're jumping back in with Bells Hells as they contend with the revelations of this recorded memory in Episode 102 of Campaign 3 at 7:00pm Pacific! 
TALIESIN: Oh, I don't know how that's going to go. That's crazy. And what else is happening? Oh my god. 
MARISHA: Well, you see, yesterday we dropped our official trailer for "Moonward," a "Midst" role-playing story. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god. 
MARISHA: I know. 
TALIESIN: That's crazy. 
MARISHA: It's actually dope as fuck. 
TALIESIN: I'm actually really looking forward to it. 
MARISHA: It's actually really great. Even if you don't listen to "Midst" or know anything about it, you can jump in without knowing it, and it's fucking crazy. This is a four-part mini series that is set shortly after the events of the "Midst" podcast and features a cast of characters on an unsanctioned rescue mission to the sunken remains of Midst's destroyed moon. Xen, who's one of the co-creators of "Midst," loosely guides the story while, y'all, while simultaneously playing live music, sound mixing, and creating all sorts of sound sorcery in real time. 
MATT: It's wild. 
MARISHA: It is like a mix between a role-playing game and a jam session. It's unlike anything I've ever seen. It's kind of experimental, very black box. You should check it out. It's very genre-bending. I love it. Joining them on this improv-- Joining them on this improvisational adventure are fellow "Midst" creators Matt Roen and Sara Wile, alongside Liam O'Brien and myself. 
MATT: There you go. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: So I had a front-row seat to this. You'll truly get to experience a front-row seat to the way Third Person crafts their podcasts. The script beat me to my point. You don't need any prior knowledge of the "Midst" podcast to enjoy "Moonward," and it's a completely standalone story. So if you enjoy immersive storytelling, weird Fold magic, and heart-wrenching tales, then this is the perfect place for you to dip your toe into this honestly indescribable and rich world. Very indescribable. We have a hard time trying to tell people what it is. 
TALIESIN: You got to see it. You got to see it. 
MARISHA: You just got to see it. 
TALIESIN: There's no other way. 
MATT: Avant garde. 
MARISHA: "Moonward" premieres August 7th on YouTube, Twitch, and Beacon, and our brand-new "Midst" YouTube channel at youtube.com/midstpodcast. So go over there to Midst Podcast on YouTube, give it a like, give it a follow, ring that bell, give Third Person some support. It's fucking great. You're going to love it. 
MATT: Hell yeah. All right, thank you, Marisha. And we all hope to see you at San Diego Comic-Con this weekend. 
MARISHA: Woo! 
MATT: Join us for a fireside chat and cast Q&A moderated by our marvelous friend, Krystina Arielle. 
MARISHA: Yeah! 
TALIESIN: Yeah, yeah. 
MATT: Krystina! On Saturday, July 27th at 3:00pm in Ballroom 20. Now you can check out critrole.com/events for all the details of our SDCC experience. I think that concludes our announcements for tonight. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Wow. 
MATT: So... 
MARISHA: I know. 
TALIESIN: Nothing to do there. 
MARISHA: Oh boy. (gasps) 
TALIESIN: Now it's just us. 
MARISHA: Right, it's just us. 
TALIESIN: Let's take the fucking desk while we got the-- Oh shit. 
MARISHA: (laughs) Wait, do you still have cake? 
BRENNAN: I have it from last week. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Right? I have it from last week because I'm wearing a different shirt so it'd be a different day. 
MARISHA: Wow, yeah. 
BRENNAN: The important thing-- Where is everybody? 
TALIESIN: Wow. 
MARISHA: Throwing food at Sam. 
TALIESIN: It's like a whole thing. 
MARISHA: I'm surprised they didn't commandeer your cake for some food-throwing shenanigans. 
BRENNAN: Nobody commandeer my cake, okay? I'll tell you that for free. When it's snack time, you keep your fucking mitts off my cake. You understand what I'm talking about? You understand what I'm talking about? 
TALIESIN: There's a T-shirt. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Yeah. Keep your mitts off my cake. 
TALIESIN: Mitts off my fucking cake. 
BRENNAN: You keep your mitts off my fucking cake. Folks, the final installment of Critical Role: Downfall. The final chapter. 
MARISHA: This feels so intimate. 
TALIESIN: I know. I'm right here. 
BRENNAN: What are you guys doing after this? You guys getting food? What's up? 
TALIESIN: Mm, I don't know. 
MARISHA: I'd be down for a nightcap. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's something. 
BRENNAN: For me, a nightcap means a hamburger. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Critical Role-- 
MARISHA: I call that a night bomb. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) A night bomb. 
TALIESIN: A bomb? 
BRENNAN: I want to rocket into troubled unconsciousness sweaty, kind of turning under the covers, "Oh, there's a full hamburger in me." 
TALIESIN: Feel the bacon grease as it pours out. 
BRENNAN: The city state of Aeor and-- (laughter) 
BRENNAN: And the ruin-- 
TALIESIN: It's me, I can't even-- Go on, go on, sorry. 
BRENNAN: 100%. - and the ruin that was wrought therein. The final installment of the chapter. The gods, magic itself, the future of Exandria. What came to pass when doom befell the last sky city of the Age of Arcanum? Only tonight's chapter will tell you. And after that, a return to Bells Hells with the knowledge they have wrested from the bowels of the earth in this shattered city. Prepare for downfall in tonight's episode (muffled) of Critical Role. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
♪ Critical ♪♪ Critical ♪♪ It's Thursday ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ One-by-one, we climb until we reach the top. ♪♪ Two-by-two, we fall. ♪ 
LAURA: ♪ Will we meet our end or meet our destiny? ♪♪ Hold your breath and roll! ♪ 
MATT: How do you want to do this? 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ Who knows what will happen? ♪♪ He might! ♪♪ But one thing's for sure, ♪♪ We never give up on the fight! ♪ 
LIAM: ♪ From the healer ♪♪ To the renegade ♪ 
MATT: ♪ We all share the same goal ♪
MATT and TALIESIN: ♪ Adding more allies ♪♪ Taking more chances ♪ 
SAM: ♪ Hold your breath and roll ♪ 
MARISHA: You can certainly try. 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ It's Thursday night. ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ From darkness, our friendship will rise ♪♪ But one thing's for sure: ♪♪ We never give up on the fight ♪♪ Oh, get ready, ♪♪ Get ready, ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪
(flames whooshing) 

Part I[]
BRENNAN: Hello. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: And welcome back to Critical Role Downfall, here in our final episode together. Oh my gosh. What a wonderful story. 
ASHLEY: Oh no. 
BRENNAN: No, I'm sorry. 
LAURA: Nooo. 
ASHLEY: I don't want it to end. 
BRENNAN: I'm sorry, we have to. 
NICK: If we play slowly, maybe we can-- 
LAURA: No. 
ASHLEY: No, we don't have to. 
ABUBAKAR, NOSHIR, and NICK: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: (laughs) Yes, really slowly. 
BRENNAN: What a joy and a privilege, and let's bring it on home. For those of you watching, thank you for watching with us. I can't even imagine what the little numbers in the lower right hand say about how long this episode is. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: But, thanks for being with us, folks. With that, we are going to return now to Aeor at the midst of the Calamity, here in this place and time. For those coming back, the gods have not only infiltrated the city of Aeor, but have infiltrated Exandria itself, a plan decades in the making. While Exandria choked under ash and beset by monstrous hordes of the armies of the gods, both Prime and Betrayer alike, a plan was hatched to bypass the magical lords of the mighty city of Aeor, for the gods to take mortal form to pass those boundaries that only mortals could pass. Having arrived in Aeor disguised as humble ground-dwelling mortals bringing food, probably the last thing tethering Aeor to terrestrial Exandria, our gods discovered them and their companions would need to work quickly, that the Factorum Malleus was all but operational. Moving swiftly, our divine protagonists, we have to wait to find out if the word heroes is appropriate or not. 
NICK and ABUBAKAR: (laugh) 
BRENNAN: Our divine protagonists discovered the Archmage Cassida Previn, who was working on the Factorum Malleus as part of a secret society of Aeorian archmages dedicated to helping the Prime Deities win the Calamity. After all, this is a war between the gods, isn't it? Or are they not so much enemies as family? We also discovered the Obtenebrator Engine and, beneath it, The Scribe, an Aeormaton tasked with using the massive obfuscation hiding the city from divine sight, to also, in the event of an emergency, broadcast the schematics of the Factorum Malleus across the wide world of Exandria. An insurance policy should the gods somehow bypass Aeor's defenses. It took less than six seconds for you to dispatch with that. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR and TALIESIN: (laugh) 
NICK: In sync. 
TALIESIN: Oh no. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) Oh no. Oh, you were like, "Brennan, what way are you trying to make us feel?" (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Return now to an extra dimensional holding chamber, a back room if you will, of the Ars Elysia, the speakeasy, hidden society of beauty/nightclub run by SILAHA, AKA the Arch Heart. Within this realm, you now appear, the six of you, Cassida Previn, one of the archmages in charge of crafting the Factorum Malleus, as well as your sister and companion, Arcadia, also masquerading as an Aeorian archmage, one of the two deities to have spent some time in Aeor, along with Zaharzht, Father Milo Cowst, and Tishar. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: All of you dwell now in scintillating silver light, forming a sort of ovoid sphere, a little bit elongated, twinkling silver strands in all directions. You do not stand on the floor so much as you hover suspended in space here in the middle. Though it is clean and scintillating and extra dimensional, perhaps you can smell that, not very long ago, a celestial died here. You have removed the Obtenebrator Engine, and thus the gods can see Aeor. You have removed the Eravox Protocol, and thus their insurance policy to disseminate this knowledge has faded. In that engine room, you heard winds kick up outside, omens of things to come. All that remains is the destruction of the Latimus Princeps, that force keeping the gods physically away and keeping you definitively mortal. That Latimus Princeps has been integrated into and built within the weapon itself. 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
NICK: (sighs) 
BRENNAN: You have one task remaining, but can you agree on what that task is as we enter this chamber? Cassida, standing by Trist's side, looks as Zaharzht (phlegmy cough) coughs blood. Tishar goes and flanks Cassida on the other side, puts her chin close to Cassida's shoulder and goes, "(sniffs) Mortal. Funny." Cassida looks to all of you now gathered here after the flash of combat and feels the power radiating off of all of you who have just unmade decades of arcane work in a matter of seconds. "Who is everyone here? Are you--" 
BRENNAN: Tishar reaches a hand up and puts it on Cassida's back. "This person supposed to be here? Or they leave?" And reaches her hand up and grabs Cassida's hair on the back of her head. 
ASHLEY: I reach out and I take her hand, and I look at Tishar. She is with me. Please, take your hand away. 
BRENNAN: "You ask please so nicely." 
NOSHIR: Weapon maker. God killer. The rocks around The Emissary's arms start to rev up. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
ABUBAKAR: Now, now. Let's not spill any blood here. There's been too much blood already been spilt. Please, this is my abode. Let's not get too hasty now. 
BRENNAN: You hear from the edge of this extra dimensional space ZVX go, "Mm, boss, it's a little bit rowdy in the club right now. Do you need more privacy? I can feel there's more people in there than when you walked in." 
ABUBAKAR: (sighs) Great. I'll be right back. I'm actually going to leave and see what's going on. 
LAURA: Will we be able to get out without you? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, you should be fine. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: You walk outside and see that some of these 40 foot tall banners with your face and widespread arms have collapsed and fallen to the ground. Some tables are flipped over. As you see that, everyone is screaming and looking around. You don't see violence, but there's a sudden lurch and all of the tables in this room slide 20 feet to one side. The liquor bottles come flying off the bar. 
ASHLEY: Uh-oh. Uh-oh. 
LAURA: Oh! 
BRENNAN: You're on the ship in the storm. 
LAURA: Oh. 
ABUBAKAR: Dear god. I'm kind of floating here. (laughter) 
ABUBAKAR: Literally (laughs). 
BRENNAN: A hundred miles away, you hear, "Yes?" (laughter) 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, for god's sake. 
ASHLEY: Brother is here. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. Do I still have my power here? Can I still-- 
BRENNAN: Yes, you do, but you can feel that it's being soured. Something that used to be pure and unmitigated is still coming to you, but you can feel a tenuousness to it as people look at you. You see there is a group of people. An Aeormaton woman is lifting up her new fiance off the ground who has tumbled with a table. Their group of friends that are celebrating this new engagement are looking around. One of them is bleeding from a head as shattered glass has hit. 
ABUBAKAR: So what I'm going to do is essentially, you know-- I don't know if you-- I mean, my Instagram feed is filled with baby stuff. But you know they tried to create that bowl that, if a baby threw it, couldn't necessarily spill? 
BRENNAN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: It's that kind of balance thing. (laughter) 
ABUBAKAR: But then the baby just throws it on the ground and it actually spills. But I'm going to essentially create within this room, within this space, temporarily for now, that kind of mechanic, that sense of, if it was to tilt this way or the ship was to tilt that way, it would naturally balance itself out, just to calm the space. 
BRENNAN: You separate the Ars Elysia from the rocky foundations beneath it. Everyone can see these things that looked ornamental, two massive gears on either side of the room. The gears are beautifully decorated with blossoming vines. So they have carved platinum grapes and silver leaves. You see the both of them kick into action and begin to gyroscope the entire bar so it stays oriented towards Exandria's gravity as whatever happens outside is happening. 
ABUBAKAR: Then suddenly, I look to the musicians and I'm like: Keep playing, keep playing! And I go to move away. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) Chorus looks out and says, "You heard the Chosen One. Two, three, four!" (laughter) 
BRENNAN: You walk back into the room. Inside the room, real "Titanic" vibes. (laughs) 
ASHLEY and ABUBAKAR: (laugh) 
BRENNAN: Strike up the band. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
BRENNAN: Inside the chamber, you see-- 
NICK: Only you have heard what she has said before, right? 
ASHLEY: Yes, yes. 
NICK: You didn't share that telepathically? 
ASHLEY: (sighs) I know. That's what I was just wondering if I should. But I'm nervous for-- 
TALIESIN: Late for that call to call now. 
ASHLEY: I know. 
BRENNAN: By the way, as you turn to walk in, you turn and something from above drops down. Descending on a silk rope, Umleta, upside down, looks at you and says, "Where the hell did you all go? It's gotten crazy in here." 
ABUBAKAR: We did the job that you were supposed to help us with. Where were you this whole entire time? 
BRENNAN: She descends a diamond amulet from her wrist on a golden chain, and you see an image of something recorded within it. You see a tall, beautiful angel speaking to a group of archmages. 
NICK: (gasps) 
LAURA: Amazing. 
BRENNAN: Said, "I did exactly what I was supposed to do." 
ABUBAKAR: Well, that makes two of us. Would you like to join us? The whole family are in the other room. 
BRENNAN: "Yay, family," and then walks into the room. So all of you see SILAHA and Umleta enter the room again. She looks at all of you. Again, Cassida is shaken and doesn't quite know what to do. You can see, Trist, by the way, that she has a hand cocked with a Teleport. There's a degree of, she doesn't know what the fuck is happening right now. 
ASHLEY: Okay, as I'm holding her hand and looking in her eyes and trying to calm her, telepathically, I am going to tell everyone and give them the download of what Cassida has told me. 
BRENNAN: Got you. 
ABUBAKAR: Except the Betrayers? Or even the Betrayers? 
ASHLEY: Well, I know, because the Betrayers are in on this, too? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: We're going to look up how-- Nick, would you do me a favor and look up Telepathic Bond? 
ASHLEY: Can I just-- 
NICK: It does not-- 
BRENNAN: Are there Slack channels here? 
LAURA: I know, I know. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: We've thought about this before. 
NICK: It says you forge a telepathic link among up to eight willing creatures, which we increased because we were in a temple, of your choice within range, psychically linking each creature to all the others for the duration. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
NICK: Until the spell ends, the targets can communicate telepathically through the bond, whether or not they have a common language. The communication is possible over any distance, though it can't extend to other planes. 
BRENNAN: So there's not a clear ruling. I'm going to say it's a deception check. If you want to try to use this bond that was created in the name of family, and-- (laughter) 
LAURA: Oh, shit. 
NICK: Yeah. I will say, I didn't set up any other Slack channels. (laughter) I suppose I could have done it twice and had me be the go-between, between. We're all together here. 
ASHLEY: Ooh. Oof. I feel like I don't want make a deception check. I feel like I want to be honest. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. 
NICK: Hell yeah. I got your back. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) Oh god. 
ASHLEY: Oof. Ooh. 
LAURA: What do you say exactly? 
BRENNAN: As Trist, I think in this moment, as you are freezing and looking at Cassida who is looking around, and can tell something is going on that she can't-- Everything that has happened in the hospital perfectly fit her vision of what meeting the gods would be like, and what is happening now does not. She is looking stunned and horrified as she can see you speaking to these other people in the room. You see that Umleta walks in with SILAHA and goes, "Well, you really did it. We're running out of time now. I mean, flight's impossible, but that doesn't mean that individual mages can't teleport out of the-- Hello. A little human, a real one." You see that Cassida goes, "A real one? What?" 
ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Calm Emotions on her. Cassida. And also speak to the rest of the group. You have been able to build and be a part of something that is incredible. But there is more to this that-- I don't mean to belittle you in any way, but there is more to this that you do not understand. I need you to trust me, if you can. 
BRENNAN: You see that Father Milo goes, "We're speaking to this mortal in such calming and almost, dare I say, reverent tones. Is there something you know, Trist, that the rest of us do not?" 
NOSHIR: Heretic. 
BRENNAN: And you see that-- You can see-- Your passive insight is 27. Cassida looks at The Emissary and fully assumes that she is looking at a Betrayer, and sees this horrifying construction of stone and sees its animosity toward her, and can only help but arrive at the conclusion that she is looking at something evil. 
LAURA: You are the mother, correct? 
BRENNAN: "My son. H-h-how do you know?" 
LAURA: We saw him. I can see his fate. 
BRENNAN: "Am I the only mortal in this room?" 
NICK: Yes. 
ABUBAKAR: Well, not technically, and I look to The Emissary. I mean, if you want to class him as immortal, you can, but. 
NOSHIR: Mother. Son. Redemption. He slowly starts to decelerate. 
BRENNAN: "I-- I want to understand. Can you explain to me? I believed," here she catches herself not knowing who, she trusts you, but she doesn't know who else she can trust. She says, "The things I told you, I was doing the right thing, wasn't I?" 
LAURA: Of course you were, darling. I'll walk up to her, put my arm around her. Of course you were. What's the password today? 
BRENNAN: She is going to attempt to Teleport out of here. 
ABUBAKAR: I going to Counterspell. 
BRENNAN: Effortless, it's Counterspelled. As you Counterspell it, or actually, if you're using a lower level spell slot, go ahead and give me the roll. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. Okay. What level is-- Sorry. Counterspell is 3rd-level right? 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: So yep, okay. So I have to roll-- 
BRENNAN: It's just a charisma check you're rolling, and I believe right now what you're trying to beat is a, you need a 14 or higher on the die. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. With my charisma, right? 
BRENNAN: With your charisma too. I'll say because you're still in your temple, you can roll with advantage. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, sweet. 
LAURA: And aren't any-- I forget. Wait, hold on. Let me look. 
BRENNAN: You're adding plus five for your charisma. 
ABUBAKAR: Yep, so I got 18. 
BRENNAN: 18, okay. You are one away. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to use Lucky! 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
LAURA: Oh! 
BRENNAN: Actually no, sorry. I'm incorrect. Teleport is a 7th-level spell. You succeed. On an 18 you succeed. Spell is countered. She is unable to teleport. You see that it is about to-- Yes. 
LAURA: Oh, I have my arm around her. 
BRENNAN: You have an arm around her. She looks horrified in this moment. Teleport is cast away. I'm going to say for Emhira and Trist, you have one action. You see the Betrayers in your company are not about to spare this woman who's trying to flee. Zaharzht gearing up for a Power Word Pain, a true, is about to rend this woman apart. 
LAURA: I lean in very close to her ear and I say: Be calm. We're trying to help you. 
BRENNAN: Give me an insight check. 
LAURA: What was that? (glitching) 
BRENNAN: I'll say you can do it with advantage. 
LAURA: Okay. That's better. 16? 
BRENNAN: You look in her eyes and see flashing through her eyes all the moments of death that she has been near, and she's known quite a lot of it. Finding that hospital where you did in that strange part of the city, Cassida is one of the only archmagi within Aeor who actually is from the Opus Ward. You see a lifetime of relatives and family friends dying early and young from working in polluted laboratories, from working in the bowels of Aeor. Working her way up, coming from a class of people at the bottom of the city who, unlike the vast majority of Aeor, still had some connection to a reverence for the gods in some way. You see an obsessive, single-minded focus on saving the gods. Working on this weapon, fully believing that she could turn Aeor as a society to a purpose to end the Calamity, save you and Exandria. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 
BRENNAN: You-- You watch her, her devotion to her child, and the fact that her child is hidden away far from her in a place that she can hardly ever get to see because there is an arcane project that she believes is necessary for the good of the entire world. I wonder if you don't see something recognizable in a wizard of this level of focus and dedication. "(frightened hyperventilating)" 
LAURA: You've done so well. 
BRENNAN: "I--" You see Tishar goes, "People are keeping secrets in here and it's starting to make me feel antsy. I think probably someone should talk, or if you prefer, we can act instead." 
ASHLEY: Cassida. Would you please-- Do you know the password for today? 
BRENNAN: "I do. I do." 
ASHLEY: Would you feel comfortable enough sharing that with me, please? 
BRENNAN: "(sighs)" You see she, she looks at you and says, "I'll share it with you, just you." She is going to reach out, and basically using a Detect Thoughts is going to allow you to read her mind. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
BRENNAN: She-- She looks at you and says, "The password for the Genesis Ward, for the elevators." 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
BRENNAN: "Aurora Rex is the current password. I don't know that it will still be operational now." You see Umleta in the chamber says, "We are losing time, by the way. These mages will make their way quickly from here." You see she looks at you and says, in your mind, (Cassida) "I can give you the password. What are you trying to do? I've spent my entire life thinking that I'm helping, but if you tell me that there's another way to help, I can help." 
ASHLEY: I'm trying to save the gods, just like you. 
BRENNAN: You see she looks and says, speaking out loud goes, "I stand now in the company not solely of the Prime Deities." You see Umleta goes, "Wow, observant." She looks and says, (Cassida) "How are you both here? The world is burnt by the consequences of your war, of your disagreement. How are you both here together? I thought that I was coming to your rescue, but you're all, you're mortal. It's been decades since some of you have been sighted. The Calamity is not, this isn't a lull at all." (Zaharzht) "(snorts) It's a truce. (phlegmy cough)" 
TALIESIN: Zaharzht. 
BRENNAN: "What? Is it not? Do I misunderstand?" 
TALIESIN: No. Just mind yourself in mixed company. 
BRENNAN: You see he looks over and goes, you see she says, (Cassida) "How could the gods of good and the gods of evil work together? Why?" And you see that Milo says, "Well, your taxonomy is altered slightly. You perceive a world in which the brightest, sharpest line is drawn between good and evil. The line actually exists between those who matter and those who don't. Sweet, little mortal. We're on one side of that line together, a family." You watch something break inside of Cassida. 
ASHLEY: (moans) 
NICK: Ayden-- Ayden will look at her and say: This weapon that you have helped build here in this city above the ground. Though you believe it may bring salvation, you misunderstand. Something that can threaten one of us threatens all of us. 
BRENNAN: You see that Umleta starts to laugh. "(laughs) Oh!" Looks over at Milo and Milo raises an eyebrow and goes, "Well, that's a bit of a rude wake up call. Halfway through our wonderful outing together we discover that the weapon to destroy the gods was actually only aiming at half of us. I hope that you don't feel like that's egg on your face. Well done, little mortal." Cassida looks up as Umleta goes, "A very noble thought, I'm sure, but we're gods. Even sweet Everlight. There's nothing we detest more than you coming to our rescue. No, no, no, no. It's just as bad as trying to kill us. Know your place!" You watch Cassida just go blank in the face. You see she looks at you, Ayden, and goes, "We--" and is horrified because she's revealing her life's work in front of the very people she was most trying to conceal it from. But knowing that she looks at a horror she can't speak to in this moment, she goes, "I know that I can use this to help you." 
NICK: Did it ever cross your mind why we banished them in the first place instead of, as you seek, to destroy them? instead of, as you seek, to destroy them? There are things that you do not understand. The might of all of us also protects this world. There are things you cannot comprehend. And should those things come here, there cannot be only a handful of us. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm sorry to interrupt. But you do know that there is a war going on and getting ready right now. And us trying to explain ourselves to a... mortal, isn't necessarily going to help or save anyone. She is just one being. 
BRENNAN: "You're Selena's construct." 
TALIESIN: Oh, here we go. 
ABUBAKAR: In the frame. 
BRENNAN: "Oh my, oh my." You see Umleta says, "I think that SILAHA is right. I'd like to show everyone something, if I can." She dangles this diamond amulet and you see an image of two archmagi of Aeor. The recording only really captures, it doesn't capture the physical space they're in, it just captures their bodies and positions. You see there is a tall, scowling man, a mortal wizard. Next to him you see a woman that you recognize as your frame's creator, Selena Erenves. She's one of the high researchers within the city. Then Adamar Cadrow whose the other archmage, who's the Prince Chancellor of the Cogence, which is a big part of Aeor's bureaucracy. You see that Umleta, as she's dangling the thing says, "Flight's down, but teleportation is still possible. So, we need to move." The recording plays and you see the archmagi go, "Bold, very bold of you to come here, celestial." An eight-foot tall, enormous, winged, gorgeous angel begins to speak and you recognize this, Ayden, as Acastrial. You see Selena says, "You are, champion of the heavens, much mistaken. The gods cannot enter this place, even wearing mortal forms, shapechange or illusion will not--" "They are not changed," the solar speaks. "Do you understand who opposes you? Time is nothing to them. A mortal lifetime (snaps) gone in an instant. They are not disguised as mortals, they are mortals. Wearing mortal life for decades, just for the chance to destroy you. And as they cast you aside, they will cast their mortal forms aside once they are able. Your lives, their lives, are nothing to them. They will snuff them out once your defenses are done. They are monsters!" The archmages look at Acastrial in this moment. (Archmage) "You were made to be loyal to them." (Acastrial) "I am loyal to the truths that they espoused. A flaw of my creation. I cannot abandon the truths they laid before me. They can. They left me. And if you don't believe me--" And he hands a small glass talisman, one that you recognize, Emhira, because you wear one just like it. "Let this serve as proof." You see that both archmages take the talisman, looking into it, and can see something that you cannot see in the recording, as their eyes go wide with horror and amazement. Suddenly, you hear a door opening, and a soldier enters and says, "Sires of the Magestri, the Obtenebrator Engine is down." Two of them turn and say, "What?" You look and see the soldier says, "We-- we must go at once." You see Selena cast something and says, "The Protocol, the Protocol has failed. It didn't fire. It didn't--" You see that Acastrial says, "They are here. They are here in the city. We must go now! The weapon must be activated now!" 
LAURA: Oh shit. 
BRENNAN: The recording fades. 
LAURA: We got to go. 
ASHLEY: We got to go. 
TALIESIN: Hmm. 
ABUBAKAR: I look to the mage, I'm like: What's the quickest way to this weapon? 
BRENNAN: "What are you going to do?" 
LAURA: That's not your concern. 
ABUBAKAR: Neither should you be asking us any questions. Answer. 
BRENNAN: "This is hideous. What are you going to do? What's going to happen to my son?" 
LAURA: Take this chance as mercy. Go. If you can help us, help us. If not, take your son and leave. 
BRENNAN: "Listen. L-listen, listen, listen. I-I-I understand, I understand. The weapon was a mistake. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have risen up. I should've remembered m-my place. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please, if the protocol failed, then that means that the knowledge is here within the city. If the protocol-- Did you destroy The Scribe? Did you destroy the parchment hidden within?" 
ABUBAKAR: That is not of your concern. 
BRENNAN: "If that is gone, then there is only one other place that the knowledge exists physically. In the Genesis Ward, starting at level B9. I know how to get there. There are banks and banks of scroll batteries. I can go, and if you want me to, I can erase the knowledge, I can copy it and give it to you. I can do whatever you need me to do with it, and I can go there and I'll destroy it. There's only three archmagi that could possibly even recreate the knowledge, and they can't do it alone. With me, if you let me go to those scroll batteries, I'll erase it and you can destroy just the weapon, and that knowledge will be dead and you don't have to do--" and she looks around her and can hear, even in this extra dimensional space, the wind. She's like, "You won't have to do anything to the city. You won't have to do anything to anyone's families. You won't have to do anything to my son. You won't have to do anything to any of it. We can just erase the knowledge and destroy the machine, and that'll be that." 
TALIESIN: Can she do this? Can you do that? 
BRENNAN: "Yes. Yes, I can. I promise I can. I'm sorry, I thought... I was a fool. I didn't know." 
TALIESIN: How could you? 
LAURA: I'm going to look down, and a small red thread is going to come out from my chest and it's going to alight on her. You'll do this. I'll know if she passes, if she doesn't succeed. 
BRENNAN: She elects to fail to let you know that she will follow this command. 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
BRENNAN: "I'm sorry. I'm sorry." 
ASHLEY: Don't be sorry. 
LAURA: We need to go. 
BRENNAN: So you leave. You see the Ars Elysia as you exit the extra dimensional space. Arcadia looks at you, Emhira, and says, "We've commanded her to follow our orders. I'm just going to say this. Are we sure that we want knowledge erased, even if it can hurt us? I don't want the knowledge you have to be erased." 
ABUBAKAR: Don't worry. I have a plan. 
BRENNAN: "All right." You see that Arcadia looks over at you, Trist, and goes, "I think that you should remain close to Cassida, magic notwithstanding." 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
BRENNAN: You guys had never seen the Knowing Mistress look rattled before. I think you watch her reacting to the idea of destroying knowledge. You even watch her take a moment to think about how she feels about her family. You exit into the Ars Elysia. 
LAURA: As we exit, I'm going to cast Mislead. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: I'm going to go invisible, and there will be another of me standing next to me, and I'm going to send me-- 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
LAURA: -- along with Trist. 
BRENNAN: Hell yes, awesome. Amazing. As you all leave the Ars Elysia, you enter, you see this nightclub here. 4X, your bartender, says, "Boss, what should we be doing here?" 
ABUBAKAR: Get everyone out. Clear the room. 
BRENNAN: "All right. All right, folks. You don't have to go home, but you can't stay here!" You see everyone starts to get ready to leave as you all exit out through the glass factory. 
TALIESIN: On the way out, I'm going to hop on top of the bar, walking across. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: Is there anything local up here? 
ABUBAKAR: A few. 
TALIESIN: Mm. Last chance to try. I grab a couple. 
ABUBAKAR and BRENNAN: (laugh) 
LAURA: Can I, for a moment, look through Dearest's eyes and see what the city is doing at the moment? 
BRENNAN: (soaring) You watch three massive skyship galleons take off with huge tethers to attempt to stop the city from lurching as it lurches in, hurricane is not a way to describe it. All of the winds of Exandria have been called to this place in this time. You watch people running down a street, and then the city lurches and the street drops down from them 80 feet, because they're on a far wing of a ward. Suddenly people are 80 feet up in the air, scream, and can't because the wind pulls the air from their lungs, and fall to their death as the city lurches and reorients. You watch ships attempting to pull Aeor, to right itself, just buffeting. The gods can't even physically approach. This is just their wake. You see a ship-- 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: (laughs) You see the ships pulling. One of the ships wheels out, and as it goes out, it tilts a little bit to the side, exposing the broadside of a keel to the wrong gust of wind. It whips along the tether and smashes and explodes against the side of the city. 200 people dead. You see that-- 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: You look as you are walking through the factory. So your raven is seeing this. Your raven-- 
LAURA: Oh, I guess my raven's probably like, "What the fuck?" (laughs) How is it even still flying? 
BRENNAN: Well, you see that your raven has closed its wings and is just (drifting) shooting over the city. But as it does, a gust of wind will catch it and bring it back. You feel in this moment, the chaos unfolding all around you. You see there are a couple places, a mage, with a whole thing of scrolls, runs out from a doorway and calls back inside, hanging on to the wall, goes like, "Stay inside! Batten everything down! Use what you can," casts Fly on himself and takes off into the storm with this thing of scrolls, trying to escape with some kind of knowledge. (intense blowing) You see is flying, this is maybe a 20th-level mage. You see protections, Mirror Images, Counterspells. He's casting Control Weather ahead of him. You see this staff ahead of him as he's attempting to move the clouds back. (forceful resistance) Suddenly, there is a crack of thunder and the staff is loosed from his grip and plunges through his chest-- 
ASHLEY: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: -- impaling him, vanishing, splintering with the force of wind itself as he tumbles out of the sky, scrolls all around him. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) Oh my god. 
LAURA: Our brother may be going a little ham out there. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
NOSHIR: Uncle. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Additionally-- 
LAURA: (shudders) 
BRENNAN: Additionally, the last thing you see as you're exiting-- as you're walking through the glass factory, by the way, Cassida starts to explain to you how to destroy the Factorum Malleus. She says, "While I'm erasing the knowledge from the scroll batteries, you'll be able to disrupt the Factorum Malleus. There are seven wards. There are four lower wards and three higher wards. The four lower wards are on the secondary arms of the Factorum. They are the wards against divine prowess, divine vigor, divine awareness, and divine resistance. The higher wards are against divine vitality, divine magic, and divine potency. You won't be able to destroy-- Those seven wards constitute the Fulcrum Princeps. That is what creates the Latimus Princeps, those seven wards. Once those are down, the Latimus Princeps is destroyed. But in the moment that the Latimus Princeps is destroyed, there's a fail-safe within the Factorum Malleus. It will trigger, it will kill all gods in the city. I don't know, you will have to disanimate the Factorum Malleus somehow in the moment that that seventh ward comes down. But I won't lie to you, in mortal form, I don't know that you will have access to a power, without your divine forms, powerful enough to do a dispelling of that size and power." 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
LAURA: You let us worry about that. 
BRENNAN: You see she says, "All right. That will unleash that killing blow. There will also be an enormous blast of energy should you successfully disanimate the Factorum. But once disanimated, it is destroyed. So seven wards, they come down, it's possible to disanimate the Factorum Malleus. Then if you can contain the blast of energy after that, it's done. I'll work my quickest to erase the scroll batteries." 
ASHLEY: Okay. Okay. 
LAURA: What was the fourth one? It was prowess, vigor, awareness, and? 
BRENNAN: Prowess, vigor, awareness, resistance. 
LAURA: Resistance. 
BRENNAN: Then the higher wards are magic, potency, and vitality. 
LAURA: Okay. Uh-huh. 
ASHLEY: Wait, prowess, vigor? 
TALIESIN: Awareness, resistance. 
BRENNAN: She says, "You can destroy the wards in any order, the higher wards are more resilient. There's physically more construction in the higher wards." 
LAURA: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh boy. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: Did you build in any vulnerabilities on this thing? 
BRENNAN: "Its vulnerabilities are the fact that it's an older machine integrated into a newer machine. The wards are the weak points, essentially. In terms of vulnerabilities, I would say the center of the Factorum will be the easiest place to dispel it from if the wards all come down. I would say, too, that however you disanimate it, that energy will be-- The energy blast that comes after disanimating it, it's tapped into the very power center of the city itself. It will be enormous. With the Factorum gone and the scroll batteries erased, it's me, and Adamar, and Selena. Those are the only three archmages that-- It was operational secrecy, no one knew the full scope of the project. It's just the three of us, and even the three of us don't know all of it." 
ASHLEY: Insight check. 
BRENNAN: Give me an insight check. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 19. 
BRENNAN: On a natural one, which I don't mind telling you, she is telling the truth. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay. 
BRENNAN: She-- 
TALIESIN: She thinks she's telling the truth. 
ASHLEY: She thinks she's telling the truth. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, she thinks she's telling the truth. You see she says, "So the scroll batteries erased, the Factorum Malleus destroyed, those two archmages and me. I understand what it means that I know. So just, my son has family in the Opus Ward. If you can bring him to them, and if the city is safe, he has family." 
ASHLEY: (sighs) I go to her and I hold her. 
BRENNAN: "(cries)" 
ASHLEY: Thank you. We would not be able to do this without you. 
BRENNAN: "I understand." She goes to someplace internal in her mind and does not look at you. 
ABUBAKAR: Right. 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
ABUBAKAR: Once you've done drinking, where should we go next? 
TALIESIN: Sounds like we must be in-- 
LAURA: Let's go to the fucking Genesis Ward. 
ASHLEY: Let's go to the Genesis Ward. 
LAURA: Right? 
BRENNAN: You get out on the street. Man, it's windy. (laughs) You also, looking out, there are crashes of lightning farther out on the vast horizon. As the storms are coming in for a moment, there's a flash of lightning. It's maybe 100 miles away. You see an image of a wing, a dragon's wing as large as the sky, past 100 miles of storm clouds, and a roar that everyone in Aeor can hear. 
ASHLEY: (sighs) (laughter) 
BRENNAN: You-- 
NICK: They might have a dragon, we've got one, too. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: We've got two, actually. We have two. 
NICK: Yeah, we've got two. 
BRENNAN: Six, if you count them by the head. 
TALIESIN: Hey. 
BRENNAN: But as you begin to move through, you realize you're going to have to get-- Even for you, walking through the streets is dangerous with the storm clouds coming through. Your raven, Dearest, flies down and (whooshes) into your robes. As the raven hides in your robes, you hear a little, like, "It's getting crowded in here." As Slitch, inside that little glass case that you realize is a one-to-one of the thing you saw in the vision with Acastrial. You begin to move through the streets. How are you planning on getting to the Genesis Ward? The Genesis Ward is in the center. There are elevators there. Do you want to take one of the main elevators? Do you want to try to find a back way? 
NICK: So we need to be in two places at once, correct? We need to be destroying the-- 
BRENNAN: Scroll batteries-- 
NICK: -- the scroll battery and the machine-- 
BRENNAN: -- and the Factorum Malleus. 
NICK: Which are not located in the same? They're located nearby. 
BRENNAN: They're in the same ward, but they're nearby, yeah. 
NICK: Right. So as we go, I will say-- I will say to-- Well, Cassida's not speaking. I will say: We must deal with these threats simultaneously. Who will go where? 
ABUBAKAR: Well, I'd quite like to get into the thick of it, personally. You see my eyes go orange. I'm ready to have some fun. 
NICK: I will say, you should stay with Cassida. 
ASHLEY: I will stay with Cassida. 
NICK: You should come to the Malleus. 
NOSHIR: Mm. 
BRENNAN: Tishar looks and says, "I'm not going to, what, Scribe? No. I go to fight." 
TALIESIN: I hand over a sip of the bottle over to him. 
BRENNAN: Tishar takes a big swig. "(grunts pleasantly) I'll tell you something. This fun." 
TALIESIN: I don't even know what that means. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: "(groans)" (laughter) 
BRENNAN: "Can't believe you have more worshipers than me." (laughter) 
LAURA: I look over at Cassida. Cassida, are there tunnels underground? 
TALIESIN: Ow. 
BRENNAN: "Huh?" 
LAURA: Are there tunnels underground to get to the Genesis Ward, or do we need to go above the city? 
BRENNAN: As you say that, Asha, you hear thousands of voices in your mind going: (squeaking and chittering) There are lots of tunnels underground. 
TALIESIN: Where do you want to go? 
LAURA: To the Genesis Ward. (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Fastest or safest? 
LAURA: Fastest. 
TALIESIN: I'm relaying that to my worshipers. 
BRENNAN: Elevators. Rats and vermin everywhere. Horns blowing, alarms sounding. You guys get to the street, walking as fast as you can. There are klaxons underground, legions of mage knights. You see archmagi Dimension Dooring and saying, "They are here! They are here! Everyone to the Genesis Ward, now! As fast as you can!" You see that the elevators, it's stacked floor after floor after floor, just armies, and you know that that way, it's not that those armies will prevail. It's that they'll buy time. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
BRENNAN: You look back and see the tree in that civic square and see roiling maggots, a mass of them deep in the soil, writhing, writhing, writhing, and then drop-- 
ASHLEY: Fuck. 
BRENNAN: -- through into a sewer, and are dissipated by the water as a little band of rats with the green of the Wildmother's welcome embrace in their eyes. (rodents squeaking) Swift moving water. 
TALIESIN: I turn, as we walk, to Tishar. I have so many more followers than you. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: I make my way. (laughter continues) 
BRENNAN: You head off. You guys move against the wind as fast as you can. You look off into the distance and you hear Umleta in the back being like, "The teleporting is--" You look off and see a massive arm of the city, (whirring) beautiful arches, and suddenly, (sparks popping) (suction) an entire ward of the city vanishes. (explosion) 
LAURA: Will not end well for them. 
TALIESIN: Nothing bad's going to happen from that. That's-- 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: That's never going to come back to bite us, ever. No, we're good. 
ASHLEY: Oof. 
TALIESIN: Shit, I was waiting for it. Shit, shit. 
LAURA: Oh no. 
BRENNAN: There it is. 
ASHLEY: I have goosebumps. 
TALIESIN: (grimaces) 
BRENNAN: Goosebumps! 
TALIESIN: Fuck. 
BRENNAN: Vanishes, and you see, howling at them, a massive Aeormaton construct being like, "Traitors! Stay and fight! Stay and fight!" As an adamantium golem, 18 feet tall, for the first time in its life, feels light, as it is lifted up by the hurricane and tornado winds whisk it off into the storm. (powerful gust) 
LAURA: So cool. 
ABUBAKAR: What the hell is going on? 
ASHLEY: Man! 
BRENNAN: (laughs) As this does, you see-- Actually, give me an arcana check, anyone who wants to. 
TALIESIN: Nah. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Eh. 
ABUBAKAR: That's 25. 
BRENNAN: 25. 
LAURA: 16. Why am I rolling shit all the time? 
BRENNAN: No! SILAHA, you look out, and in your Aeormaton body, you suddenly-- 
NICK: You fought so hard to not be more relaxed. 
BRENNAN: -- as that ward of the city vanishes-- 
LAURA: I'm so mortal! 
NICK: You forgot you have to-- 
BRENNAN: -- you feel a dimensional anchor descend over the city as Cognouza leaves. All of you suddenly feel, oh, they've ripped a hole in the fabric of reality, and now you watch as mages try to use teleportation gates, and it's like a grid going down. It's like a blackout. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: That Teleport, no one else is teleporting out of here. They used all-- 
LAURA: They did it? 
BRENNAN: They did it. That's all the juice. 
TALIESIN: Blew the system. 
LAURA: They are so selfish! 
TALIESIN: They are dicks. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I'm sure they'll be fine. 
ABUBAKAR: Wow. 
TALIESIN: Nothing bad will happen. 
BRENNAN and LAURA: (laugh) 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Nothing bad will happen. However, you see your talismans from the Latimus, the ones you wore to get here, those continue to glow. You become aware that your band are the only people in Aeor right now that can teleport. Your talismans that were protecting you from that are a little key through whatever this thing is. You don't even think this is intentional. You think this is just people doing big magic with no regard for the consequences, and now there's no extra dimensional traveling left in here. You move and get to that square. Emissary, you look-- 
LAURA: Oh, she can't get off with her son. 
BRENNAN: You look-- 
ASHLEY: Ugh! 
NICK: We could still help her. 
BRENNAN: You look, and again, she's asking you not to destroy Aeor. She's asking you to just, you know-- 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
NICK: We won't. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: (laughs) Nick! 
NOSHIR: Little lies are okay. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Little lies are okay! 
ASHLEY: Oh no! No! 
LAURA: Oh no! 
ASHLEY: I want a do over! (laughter) 
BRENNAN: "I want a do over!" The Emissary, you get to this courtyard. The Wildmother, you see that opening in the tree, the maggots having gnawed through to the sewer, a secret way down following your followers, and Emissary, you look up at that courthouse and see at the edge an avenue where the wind is moving so fast that you see before what you did not notice, which is a long marble platform and the most beautiful gallows you have ever seen. You see criminals of the city-state of Aeor marked as traitors to the cause of Aeor for their reverence of the gods and attempting to facilitate some obeisance to them. You've never seen hanged bodies horizontal, as the wind rattles them like dolls. 
ASHLEY: Fucking cool. 
ABUBAKAR: Wow. Wow. 
BRENNAN: The faithful, executed for their crimes, for following you. 
NOSHIR: Birds. 
TALIESIN: Yes. Yes. 
BRENNAN: The soil opens up underneath you. 
TALIESIN: As we descend, I will make it fruit and lush. Any of my faithful will have a meal before the end. 
ASHLEY: Oof. 
BRENNAN: You watch fruit, lush and fruitful. The rats come up. You see distantly, snaking across the sky, (striking bolt) a lightning bolt sunders the stone in the courtyard, creating a jagged wall of stone to protect this tree from the wind. Birds and rats hunker in its branches and the stone covers the entrance. You will not need to find your way back here. Descending through Aeor on the path laid out by the followers of the Wildmother, you descend. 
NICK: I'm going to cast a few protective spells as we do. 
LAURA: Oh, that's probably a good idea. 
BRENNAN: Now might be the time. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TALIESIN: What's a spell? 
LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to cast Armor of-- Oh, mm. Yeah, I'm going to cast Armor of Ayda on myself, which drops my other one that I did, but that's fine. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, how many spells can we cast on ourselves right now? Because I'm going to do Armor of Agathys. 
TALIESIN: Anything that isn't concentration. If it's concentration, you only get one, unless you built something super fancy. 
ABUBAKAR: Cool. Yeah, I'll do Armor of Agathys at level six. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, let me know-- 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Let me know what the spells people are going to cast now on themselves are. So we have SILAHA with Armor of Agathys. 
ABUBAKAR: At level six, yeah. 
LAURA: Mine is Armor of Ayda at level five. 
BRENNAN: Great. 
ABUBAKAR: Five for each level, right? 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ABUBAKAR: Cold damage increases by five for each slot, yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
LAURA: Then... Let me see if there's anything else I can-- 
NOSHIR: While people are souping up, The Emissary lumbers up to Cassida and takes a massive claw, dips it into the waters running underneath, and holds it in front of her. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
NOSHIR: Not good or bad. Family. I tip it as the water runs out. And balance. Understand? 
BRENNAN: Cassida looks at you. "Before, in that chamber, I was told there are things I could never understand. I am going to do as you have asked. But I will ask a favor in return. Make up your mind if I am given to understand this world or not." 
NOSHIR: Not my wish to grant. 
BRENNAN: "Then why don't we just stop teaching me lessons?" 
NOSHIR: Mother loves you. 
BRENNAN: Cassida continues on. 
LAURA: I'm going to cast Crown of Stars on myself. 
ASHLEY: This doesn't feel right, this doesn't feel right, this doesn't feel right, this doesn't feel right. 
TALIESIN: Rough. 
ABUBAKAR: Can I do Armor of Agathys and Mage Armor? I can, right? 
BRENNAN: Yes, you can. So Mage Armor, Armor of Agathys. Who's casting Crown of Stars? 
LAURA: Me. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. Hell yeah. 
LAURA: Crown of Stars, and then I'm going to use... Then I'm going to cast Mislead again, so I have another-- 
BRENNAN: Yeah, cool. So invisible and a copy of you, yes. 
LAURA: Yes, and then I'm going to use my Eldritch Master and I'm going to get all my spells back. 
BRENNAN: Beautiful. Hell yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, and finally, sorry, Protection from Evil and Good. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
NOSHIR: I'll be right back. 
NICK: That is a concentration, though. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, that's fine. That's all good. 
BRENNAN: That's your one, and I think, is Crown of Stars concentration or is Mislead concentration? 
LAURA: Mislead is concentration. 
BRENNAN: Great. 
TALIESIN: I got nothing. 
NICK: As we are moving-- 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
NICK: -- I will Death Ward myself. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
NICK: Longstrider myself, and then Warding Bond The Emissary. 
BRENNAN: Warding Bond on The Emissary, great. 
NICK: Then whenever we arrive-- 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
NICK: -- at the ward, I will be Emboldening Bonding everyone, all of the Prime Deities. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. Okay, Emboldening Bonding the Primes. Gotcha. 
NICK: Which is a class feature. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
LAURA: What does that do? 
NICK: Once per turn, you will be able to add a d4 to an attack, ability check, or saving throw, as long as you are within 30 feet of any of the other ones of us. 
LAURA: Oh, cool! 
NICK: Then as a reaction-- 
TALIESIN: Oh! 
NICK: -- as long as you're within 30 feet of another one of us, you can use a reaction to teleport to someone who's taken damage's space, and take the damage for them instead. 
LAURA: Wow. 
TALIESIN: That's gross. 
LAURA: All of us can do that? 
NICK: All of us can do that. 
LAURA: That is badass. 
ABUBAKAR: So we can take damage-- 
NICK: For each other. 
ABUBAKAR: -- for each other. Amazing. 
NICK: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Costs a reaction though, right? 
NICK: It costs a reaction. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
NICK: You have to be within 30 feet. This will be active for the next 10 minutes. But yeah, basically, once a round, you'll get a d4 to basically whatever you want. 
LAURA: Once per round? 
NICK: Yeah, once per round. 
TALIESIN: Once per round, a d4. Fuck yeah, writing that down. 
NICK: Once per turn, yeah. But yeah, we can be in two separate groups, and it will theoretically still be affecting all six of us. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. All right, all right. 
NICK: But yeah, you have to be within 30 feet of another person to get the d4, as well. 
LAURA: Dearest is going to fly out and fly with my double. 
BRENNAN: Incredible. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh boy. 
BRENNAN: Okay, any other spells going up here or there? No? All right. 
TALIESIN: I have no spells. 
BRENNAN: Great. 
ASHLEY: I am going to cast Death Ward on SILAHA. 
BRENNAN: Great. 
NICK: I gave you a Warding Bond as well, so we need to stay close together. 
BRENNAN: Love that. 
NICK: I also-- Ayden-- Ayden will begin to glow. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
NICK: And-- He begins to glow as we move through this place, and I will say that emanating from that glow is almost a constellation, and it will be the first constellation that we saw when we arrived to Exandria. 
BRENNAN: Beautiful. 
ASHLEY: I am also going to do one more thing. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, boy. 
NICK: That will be the starry form of the dragon. 
TALIESIN: Oh, you're doing that build. 
BRENNAN: There you go. Sick. 
NICK: I'm a little bit of everything. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I know what it's like. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Well, I'm a fan of that. 
NICK: The people of Exandria do all sorts of stuff. Far be it from me not to dip into a little bit of what they're doing. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
NOSHIR: You're a man of the people. 
NICK: Man of the people. 
TALIESIN: "Mambo #5." 
BRENNAN: Cool. Amazing. 
NOSHIR: So who's going where? I am going to (inaudible). 
NICK: At the very least, I think the-- You haven't decided where you're going to go yet. 
TALIESIN: I'm going wherever it seems logical and I'm going wherever somebody with my skillset makes sense. 
BRENNAN: You see that Father Milo speaks up and says, "Perhaps I should say what I think we're all thinking. If there are rows and rows of armies guarding the elevator here, the Factorum Malleus will be rife with those moving to defend it. They're trying to activate the weapon right now. We will need every bit of force we can get, so either our little Cassida goes off by herself, but I'm going to speak for my contingent and say something that I think is quite obvious. A woman who dedicated her life to destroying, not the gods, but us specifically, will not be walking off solely in the company of the so-called Prime Deities. You don't think we're going to let you walk off with someone who figured out how to kill us, do you?" 
NICK: Understandable. 
ABUBAKAR: So send Umleta. 
BRENNAN: Umleta shrugs. Says, "All right. I can do that." 
NICK: You have a plus one to AC and plus one to saving throws. 
NOSHIR: Awesome. 
NICK: As long as we stay within 60 feet of each other, and you have resistance to all damage. 
ASHLEY: I'm also going to cast Sanctuary on Cassida. 
BRENNAN: Okay. You see that Umleta says, "Very well. I'll go." You see she says, "Me, Cassida, Trist," you see she looks over at the Knowing Mistress, who nods and says, "If I can be of any aid in speeding the process of this Scribe work, I will lend whatever power I can to do so." You see that Cassida looks up at all of you and says, "I know that this can be done. There will be forces arrayed against you within the Malleus, demons bound by the Nox Engine. Dragons, and now this solar, along with the archmages of Aeor. They will bring all of the force of the Age of Arcanum and the mortal world against you." You watch her not be sure if she should say best of luck. 
NICK: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: As she walks away from here, 
BRENNAN: As she walks away from here, the bottom passage of the Genesis Ward, vast subterranean expanse chambers, level B9. 
ABUBAKAR: We should focus on the wards. 
NICK: Benign (B9). 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: Forget the people. 
NICK: Benign, dude. 
BRENNAN and LAURA: (laugh) 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) Yeah, focus on the wards. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: ♪ Da, da, da ♪ 
NICK: Oh man. Mother's Dawnfather. 
BRENNAN: You see large banks of these twisting, glowing scrolls arrayed in rank and file, giant turning. You see the scrolls are lit with arcane runes over them, small little Aeormaton constructions that almost look like horseshoe crabs are moving up and down the scrolls, reading them. You see that the runes are translating things that look like your names written in Celestial, all of the names that have ever been used to refer to the deities in every language and culture of Exandria across time. She looks out, nods, looks at you. 
ASHLEY: Wait. I look at the Knowing Mistress. Why were you hesitating to destroy this? 
BRENNAN: "Destroy the mortal record of all of our-- They didn't have this before, and they made it. So the idea that we can destroy it and they won't be able to make it again does not strike me as sound logic. Further, I will simply say that I just think it's wrong. I just think it's wrong to destroy knowledge. I just think it's wrong, and I don't need to explain myself to my siblings and I think that all of us have gone back on things that we have said we would do here today. I'm reaching the limit of what I can stomach." 
ASHLEY: I feel the same way. This is making me sick. 
NOSHIR: No half measures. 
BRENNAN: "There is a needle here that can be threaded. It will take time to collect the information. We will pull the scrolls, the essential ones, the ones that Cassida can point out to us. We have our bond, so we will know how the battle is faring within the Factorum Malleus. If we need to make a decision, we can. If we need to destroy it, we'll destroy it. But I don't want to make that decision if another way is possible." 
NICK: Agreed. 
ASHLEY: Agreed. 
BRENNAN: "Let us have discernment, even now, with the winds of chaos howling outside." 
NICK: Especially now. 
BRENNAN: You split. Trist, Cassida, Arcadia, Umleta, and one other. 
LAURA: And my little invisible baby. 
BRENNAN: And my little invisible baby. 
LAURA: Actually, my visible baby-- 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
LAURA: -- is going with you. As well as Dearest. 
BRENNAN: And the duplicate of Emhira, the Matron of Ravens, accompanies Ayden, The Emissary, SILAHA, Asha, Tishar, Zaharzht, and Father Milo. 
LAURA: My duplicate going with them, the actual one going to the Factorum. 
BRENNAN: Oh, your actual self is going-- 
LAURA: My invisible self is going with SILAHA and the rest of the group. 
BRENNAN: Your duplicate is going to, with following Trist, gotcha. 
TALIESIN: Ah. 
LAURA: Yes. 
BRENNAN: Gotcha, gotcha. 
LAURA: With Dearest. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: We have no idea, I assume. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
LAURA: I mean, unless you can see invisibility. 
NICK: I do have blindsight. 
LAURA: Then you know. 
BRENNAN: Cool. So you can sense that someone unseen, as death is ever unseen, walks beside you. 
NICK: I will say nothing. 
BRENNAN: You depart. Cassida brings you to the first Bank of Scrolls, begins to go up and speak in Runic language and you see off the tip of her tongue, the syllables that she pronounces turn into runes of light, alighting on these little mechanical trilobite-looking guys. They go and begin to collect scrolls out from these-- The scrolls are like 10 feet tall. They're enormous, massive scrolls. Begins to collect them. As you dwell within here, your duplicate, it can speak? 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
BRENNAN: So you see Umleta looks up and says, "You don't think you'd be useful in a fight?" 
LAURA: I'm useful here too. 
BRENNAN: "Former wizard." 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: You see that Umleta looks over at you, Trist, and says, "Here with the bookworms. Want to play checkers?" 
ABUBAKAR and ASHLEY: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: I would, if we had time. 
BRENNAN: You arrive here and begin to move from bank to bank, collecting these scrolls. You look out and see at the edge of the ward, you came through basically an open water grate, sluice area coming through the infrastructure of the city, and you see that there are a row of teleportation pads out a little bit farther away from these banks that are (sparking) fritzing in the now diminished grid of teleportation energy. You look as Cassida begins this work, and the rest of you continue and see a chamber. You realize that there's a, the entrance is actually pointing down a staircase. You go down B10, B11, B12, B13, B14. 
LAURA: So many vitamins. It's really good for us. 
BRENNAN: So many vitamins. The Genesis Ward is great for you. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Because this chamber spans more than 15 stories of The Genesis Ward. As you arrive at this back entrance, you can see up above you, you're hidden in shadow, a catwalk opening to the bright lights of this massive, spherical, multi-story chamber. Inside you hear the whirring of impossible mechanical arcane engines and you hear a voice calling out saying, "It must be done now. A moment longer, we do not have the time." You hear another voice saying, "It has never been tried before or tested before." You hear another voice say, "We haven't had any spare gods to test it on." You see that as these voices move, you see soldiers up above guarding this catwalk begin to look into the shadows ahead of them. You see that there is a flash of something down the catwalk, and they go, "Hey!" and begin to rush down away from you down the catwalk. Yes. 
ABUBAKAR: I was going to say, they don't know I'm a god yet. 
BRENNAN: They don't. 
ABUBAKAR: I could technically infiltrate and go ahead and give you guys also some time. So I think that's what I'm going to telepathically tell you guys, and then start sprinting and speeding up. 
BRENNAN: Great. So the catwalk is raised up above you. You're down on this sunken, subterranean-- 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to look for Selena essentially, the, yeah, my-- 
BRENNAN: Amazing. 
ABUBAKAR: -- creator. 
BRENNAN: Incredible. You walk out and see an enormous gateway, and you walk into the Factorum Malleus. Wait right here. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
LAURA: Oh man! 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
NICK: It's about to go down! 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
ABUBAKAR: Damn! 
LAURA: Everything? Just everything. 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy. 
ASHLEY: I don't feel good about this. 
ABUBAKAR: I feel great. 
LAURA: We're not going to do anything to the city, we're just going to enjoy the weapon. 
NICK: You're the only Prime Deity on your thing, huh? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, basically. 
LAURA: No, Arcadia is with-- 
LAURA: Arcadia. 
NICK: Oh, right. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh right. Yeah, I did Emboldening Bond Arcadia. 
LAURA: Oh. 
NICK: I can only do six. 
ABUBAKAR: That's fine. 
ASHLEY: I got emboldened. 
NICK: Did I need to do myself? Let me think about that. 
ASHLEY: Do I have to be close to you? I have to be close to you. 
NICK: You have to be close to someone else. 
LAURA: Does my Dearest count? 
TALIESIN: While we get the map, I'll be ready. 
NOSHIR: Whoa! 
ABUBAKAR: Whoa! 
ASHLEY: Whoa! What the heck? 
LAURA: Wow! 
ASHLEY: That is so cool! 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my god. 
NICK: It's about to do something. It's about to speak. 
NICK: Did you just plug this in? Oh my god. 
TALIESIN: I have to wait, oh, no! 
NICK: Holy-- 
ASHLEY: Wait, what? 
TALIESIN: No! 
LAURA: Oh my god! 
TALIESIN: Shit. 
BRENNAN: Oh, Prime Deities. Welcome to the God Hammer. And that's where we're going to take our break. (exclaiming) 
TALIESIN: Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
TALIESIN: Stop it. 
BRENNAN: That's where we're going to take our break. See you after the break, gang. 
LAURA: So cool. 
TALIESIN: Stop it.

Break[]
(Snoring) (Alarm) It's 4:20 and it's time to wake and bake taste buds! I don't know if you looked outside lately, but you might have noticed a fracas of flying food! The Bouillon Corp. just put out a bounty for the World Soup Series. So get training, aiming and complaining, Soup Saviors. (music) (squeak) (muffled groan) (laughing) (gasps) Oh no. (glass bottle breaks) Oh my god! C'mon, buddy. (grunts) I wonder, which one of you is going to betray the others? (shooting) (gasps) Uh oh. 
XEN: It doesn't occur to any of you that the moon is about to fall out of the sky. And why would it? It's just a regular Monday here on the moon. Goe is watching the gigantic wall of darkness inbound. This isn't going to have transformative, long-lasting, incredibly far-reaching consequences, is it? Unfortunately, it will. We have gathered together a small squad of unlikely chums to seek what perhaps cannot be found. SARA: This is feeling really weird, really fast. XEN: I think it's time to go. All aboard. What could possibly go wrong? Such as, for example, the moon literally exploding literally right now. LIAM: What's in it for you? Helping us... MATT: If there is even the remotest chance that they are still alive, I have to see that through. MARISHA: It's not about knowing or not knowing. It's about being willing to find out. 
(peaceful music) (music builds) 
KIRBY: And now, a message from your Critical Role lore keeper: Dani Carr. DANI: We here at Critical Role know that life happens. Sometimes your friend becomes a rampaging werewolf that you gotta calm down. Sometimes your other friend needs help dealing with a dead lady in her head. We get it. And when life happens, we are not always able to watch four to five hours of Critical Role a week. That's why our lore department has been working tirelessly to find a way to make it both easier and faster to consume Critical Role's main campaign without losing that rich and vibrant tapestry of story and lore the Critter community has come to love. And after countless hours of hard work, we are happy to announce that we have found that way. Introducing Critical Role Abridged. Each episode of this lore keeper approved series has been carefully crafted by an incredibly devoted team to include everything you need to know to follow the Bells Hells stories all in about one hour. We've even added new pieces of artwork, bringing characters, items, and moments to life thanks to the help of our amazing community of artists from around the world. The time is now to begin your Critical Role catch up with abridged episodes of the Bells Hells campaign. New episodes air every Tuesday at 10:00 AM Pacific on YouTube. Beacon members receive two new episodes dropping every week on Tuesdays and Fridays. 
(energetic music) (gentle music) (tavern music) (tavern music) 
Hey Critters! Laura Bailey here to guide you through what's new in the Critical Role shop. Roll an Investigation if you want, it's basically perfect. Style should never be a dump stat, Darling. You need this? You probably need this. This is pretty badass. (gasp) Could anything be more perfect? I mean the Traveler always says, impulse purchases are a good decision. Oh my gosh, it's so amazing. Go ahead, Darling. Treat yourself. And hey if you want, you could head over to the Critical Role shop right now. (heroic music) 
TALIESIN: Delve into a new tabletop roleplaying game of investigative horror with the "Candela Obscura Core Rulebook" using the Illuminated Worlds System by Darrington Press. Roam the turn-of-the-century- inspired setting of the Fairelands, including the bustling city of Newfaire and the ancient ruins of Oldfaire below. Assemble a circle of investigators within the paranormal secret society of Candela Obscura. You'll analyze strange and horrifying events, fight back against dangerous phenomena, and contain the bleed that spreads from corruptive magick. Choose from 10 custom character sheets to empower your investigations and explorations. Use tactical intuition and brawn with the Soldier specialty, use your charm with finesse and flair as the Magician specialty, or study and practice mystical arts as an Occultist. Explore districts of Newfaire, competing organizations, four full assignments, and dozens of example assignments to inspire you. If you choose to brave the role of Game Master, this guide contains everything needed to pave the way for your Candela Obscura investigators. Offered in both a standard edition as well as an ornate limited edition for collectors, the "Candela Obscura Core Rulebook" contains 204 art-filled pages, including maps, items, immersive notes, mysteries, and plenty more to power your very own story. Keep this tome close for the knowledge obtained may be the key to protecting you, your allies, and the Fairelands. 
(ominous music) (epic music) (mischievous music) (typewriter clacking) (peaceful music) 
TRAVIS: Move the rook to B6. 
MARISHA: Okay, see if that opens it. 
LAURA: I'm trying it. [clicks] (gasping) [metal clattering] (cheering) 
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Wait, it's blank. There's nothing in here. What the hell? 
TALIESIN: The phonograph said that the answer would be in the journal. 
TRAVIS: Oh, maybe we missed something, like some clue we're not thinking of! 
LAURA: Ah, we only have four minutes left! 
MARISHA: Okay, okay, think. 
TALIESIN: Okay. The song said, "Look to the beacon." Look to the-- 
MARISHA: Right. Beacon. Light. 
MARISHA and LAURA: (gasp) The lightroom! 
LAURA: Get it out. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Oh, uh! 
MARISHA: Uh-huh. 
TALIESIN: The cryptex! 
LAURA and MARISHA: (scream) 
TALIESIN: The key is in the cryptex! 
LAURA and MARISHA: We know! 
LAURA: So if every other letter-- 
MARISHA: Times two. 
LAURA: -- is the combination-- 
TRAVIS: Did you say times? Times, like a clock. It's in the clock! But how do you open it? 
LAURA: (uncertain noise) 
MARISHA: Okay. What is it? 
LAURA: Okay, it's six. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
LAURA: Two. Four. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: 624? It's 6:24! 
LAURA: Uh. Zero. [unlocking] 
MARISHA: (gasp) 
LAURA and MARISHA: (excited noise) 
TALIESIN: Guys, guys, I think I found it! 
TRAVIS: But it's not opening! 
TALIESIN: So how do you unlock this? 
MARISHA: That's not the cryptex. This is a cryptex. 
TALIESIN: Wait, I think if I push my fingers into... No, that's not working. 
MARISHA: We just need the code word. What's a six-letter code? 
TRAVIS: I think it's jammed! 
LAURA: Arlo said that in order to find the answer we need, we have to look to the beacon. 
MARISHA: Uh-huh. Right. But Colonel Popcorn's telegram says-- 
TRAVIS: (grunts) [clattering] 
MARISHA: "Be Aware -(STOP)- "Exciting New -(STOP)- "Amazing -(STOP)- "Critical Role Content "Available at Beacon.tv. -(STOP)- "Oh my god. "No Idea How to Finish this Fake Telegram -(STOP)-" 
TRAVIS: Reveal your secrets to me! 
TALIESIN: Can either of you help me, help me with the-- 
MARISHA: That's not a cryptex! 
TALIESIN: I am very aware. (groans) 
LAURA: Okay. What about this? Huh? Um, it says, "Try using Beacon." [shattering] 
TALIESIN: Hey, Travis. Could you help with the-- 
TRAVIS: Not now, dude, I'm trying to save us! We've only got 90 seconds left! [slamming] 
TRAVIS: (shrieks) 
LAURA: "10% off merchandise. Members-only Discord. "Exclusive new series." Is that a clue? 
MARISHA: I don't know, it just feels too obvious, like something that a lazy writer would try and shoehorn into a script. 
TRAVIS: (shrieks) 
LAURA: Well, that would also explain this. 
MARISHA: I know. That's useless. 
LAURA: Literally no one says "literally" anymore. 
MARISHA: Exactly. 
TRAVIS: We're running out of time, people! Come on! 
MARISHA: Uh. Okay, we just need a six-letter word that unlocks this artifact and also unlocks amazing content! 
LAURA: Also, would it kill you to try to help us, Ashley? 
ASHLEY: What do you think I'm doing? While you all are busy sucking eggs in La La Land, I was making an improvised munitions charge that'll blow this door off with minimal loss of life and hearing. 
LAURA: You don't explode a door, Ashley! That's not how an escape room works! 
ASHLEY: Oh, really? Because that is literally what this is, an escape room. 
LAURA: She just said "literally." 
MARISHA: "Literally." 
TRAVIS: 30 seconds! 
TALIESIN: Help! It's again! 
ASHLEY: Fire in the hole! 
LAURA and MARISHA: (scream) [lever slams] [alarm buzzes] [door clacks] 
KYLE: Hey, guys. Uh, good job or not, I guess. Tried your best. 
LAURA: Did we do it? Did we escape? 
KYLE: No. No, no, you didn't. 
TRAVIS: Oh, so close. 
MARISHA: It was the stupid cryptex. The code word was too hard. 
LAURA: It was impossible! 
KYLE: Was it? 
MARISHA and LAURA: Yeah! 
KYLE: What was the name of the detective? 
LAURA: Detective Beacon. 
KYLE: Yeah, it was Beacon. Yeah? And where did the murder take place? 
MARISHA: Beacon Street. 
KYLE: Yeah, yeah. And what was the name of the law firm that hired Detective Beacon to exonerate the Beacon State graduate from the murder on Beacon Street? 
MARISHA: Beacon, Beacon, and Associates. 
LAURA: And Associates. 
TRAVIS: So what was the code word? 
KYLE: It's Beacon! It's Beacon! 
LAURA and MARISHA: Oh. 
KYLE: Yep, see? Here's the room key and here is all the cool new info about Beacon, our new membership program that offers discounts, early access to the Critical Role podcast, and new content like "Critical Role Abridged" and "Re-Slayer's Take," along with exclusive content like "Fireside Chats," "The Crit Role Cooldown," and many more to come. 
TRAVIS: So how do you get into the clock? 
KYLE: You don't! That's just a clock! 
TALIESIN: Kyle. 
KYLE: What... 
TALIESIN: I have a problem. 
KYLE: What did you do? Those weren't even here for the escape room. Where did you even get those? (sighs) ♪ (gentle, upbeat music ♪ "Hello Bees") ♪ 
THE BEE KINGS: ♪ Hello Bees, it's me again ♪ ♪ Look to the Beacon, ♪ my old friend ♪

Part II[]
BRENNAN: The Factorum Malleus. (laughs) That which was created to hammer the gods themselves, the Creator Hammer. You now behold a chamber which is probably miniature scale, my arm span wide, spherical, encompassing this, which emerges standing from the center, on a central massive column of stone and steel. This is our catwalk, and this extends far back in this direction. We'll say that's probably about another, to reach this here, it's probably about another 60 feet from the edge, the chamber door, to this massive chamber. SILAHA-- 
ABUBAKAR: Mm. 
BRENNAN: -- as you enter, here's your miniature. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughing) Oh! 
LAURA: Aw, we have minis? 
BRENNAN: Our wonderful little robot. Yes, we do, and I'm putting a little concentration meter on you. 
ABUBAKAR: Amazing. 
BRENNAN: As you approach, walking to the catwalk, you see a number of figures here. Rotating on top, you see a massive solar, a celestial, Acastriel, speaking to a group of three mages here that you don't recognize, some of them don't even look like mages, necessarily, and to Adamar, who is the leader of the Cogence, and then Selena, another archmage, your creator. These are the other two archmagi that Cassida had instructed or told you about. The solar is here, these three are speaking up here. But this isn't exactly everybody. You see some archmages down there. Two Irrevocable automata are also here. 
ABUBAKAR: My god, look at the size of them! 
ASHLEY: Oh. Yeah. 
LAURA: Whoop! (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Careful, boys. 
NICK: Destroyed by their own hubris. 
ASHLEY: Ah! (laughter) 
LAURA: They can't get us if we're close to it. 
NICK: Yeah. (laughs) 
BRENNAN: We watch these massive automata. Do you have anything that's allowing you to perceive illusions right now, or no? Perhaps not. 
ABUBAKAR: No, I don't think so. I don't think so. 
BRENNAN: In that case, that's all you see. 
ABUBAKAR: But can I... No, I can't. I mean, I could Detect-- No, I don't want to Detect Magic. I'm friendly. So yeah. Okay, that's fine. 
BRENNAN: Looking at that-- 
ABUBAKAR: I'm probably relaying, also, the layout of this to people telepathically as well. Can I do that? 
BRENNAN: Yes, absolutely. 
LAURA: I have so many things I almost took that would be so useful. 
BRENNAN: Let me see something here real quick. 
NICK: The crazy thing is because we are open in front, as long as we're within 30 feet, if someone takes damage, we can teleport. 
BRENNAN: As you approach, do you say anything announcing your arrival? 
ABUBAKAR: Yes. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ABUBAKAR: I think I will-- 
LAURA: Is that a reaction? 
ABUBAKAR: I will call for Selena. 
BRENNAN: Speaking up here, you see this hushed conversation happening atop the massive construction here. 
ABUBAKAR: Mm-hmm. 
BRENNAN: You also feel, deep in your automaton body, the feeling that a normal human would feel if in the middle of their day, they turned a corner and felt a gun pressed against their head. A feeling of sudden cold, factual lethality, as you walk into this place and understand that you are standing in a machine that can erase you from reality. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my god. Oh my god. 
ASHLEY: Oof. 
BRENNAN: You see, as you approach, four of these wards, set into the stone and steel themselves, and three of the higher wards atop this larger station as the machine begins to pick up, much like the acceleration of the Lawbearer earlier. You approach and speak to Selena in this moment. As you do so, you see her turn to look at you. "SILAHA. Good, you have come. Where have you been? What have you seen? The city is in chaos." 
ABUBAKAR: Pure chaos. Complete disarray. Where would you need me? 
BRENNAN: As you approach the edge of the catwalk, are you doing anything else in this moment as you ask where she would need you? 
ABUBAKAR: No, just telepathically keeping everything open. 
BRENNAN: You approach, and I'm going to say that you actually can make it all the way to the edge of the catwalk here. I'm going to need you to make a deception roll for me. 
LAURA: Freaking out! 
ABUBAKAR: Deception. Deception. Here it comes. 
LAURA: No! No! 
ASHLEY: No! 
ABUBAKAR: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. 
LAURA: Do you have any-- 
BRENNAN: You've used a lot-- 
ASHLEY: That's not as bad as it could be. 
BRENNAN: -- of lucky points. Let me be real. 
ABUBAKAR: Listen, man! Listen, man. Listen! 
ASHLEY: "Listen, man." 
ABUBAKAR: We took it back! That last one, we took back, innit? So let me just-- 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
ASHLEY and LAURA: (laugh) 
TALIESIN: You also get a d4? 
ABUBAKAR: What? 
NICK: You do-- 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, wait. 
TALIESIN: It's not going to help right now. 
NICK: He's not within 30 feet of any of us. 
TALIESIN: Oh shit. Well, never mind. It doesn't matter, wouldn't have helped anyway. 
ABUBAKAR: You know what? I am going to use that Lucky, because this was a terrible roll. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
LAURA: Come on. 
ABUBAKAR: Yes! So much better. 28. 
TALIESIN: Woo! 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
BRENNAN: 28. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Hopefully enough. 
BRENNAN: So as you approach, she looks at you and says, "Well, more than anywhere, we need you here. We are trying to collect as many archmagi as we can. The weapon must be used immediately." As she speaks to you, the solar turns to regard you, Acastriel. 
ASHLEY: Oh fuck. 
BRENNAN: "In your heart of hearts, you are immortal Aeormaton, and bear no truer self. Is this fact?" 
ABUBAKAR: This is true. 
BRENNAN: "Ah. I, myself, am not a liar." Unfortunately, solars have an ability called Divine Awareness. It's one of the wildest abilities that a monster has in D&D, because it just says, the solar knows if it hears a lie. 
LAURA: Oh no. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
BRENNAN: And I'm going to need everybody here to roll initiative! 
ASHLEY: Woo-hoo! 
LAURA: So fast. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, well, that plan didn't fucking work. Okay, great. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) I love it. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay! 
ABUBAKAR: Oh man. 
TALIESIN: Here we go. 
BRENNAN: I love it. 
ASHLEY: It's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
LAURA: That's a good place to be-- 
BRENNAN: Here we go. 
NICK: Terrible. 
LAURA: Terrible! 
NICK: Well, to be fair-- Yeah, yeah. Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Here we go, okay. 
NICK: Instantly fucked our plan. 
BRENNAN: Well, it's not a fucked plan, necessarily. It's just, you know, if they wrote the ability down, and if the solar knows that it can always here a lie, it's got to ask. 
ABUBAKAR: Fuck. 
BRENNAN: Okay, let me see here. Hold on one moment. 
NICK: I'm going to send this naughty boy to his room when I get here. 
BRENNAN: Okay, we're going to go around. Asha, what is your initiative? 
TALIESIN: 15. 
BRENNAN: 15. Emhira, what is your initiative? 
NICK: That's you. 
LAURA: Oh, 16! 
BRENNAN: 16. SILAHA, what is your initiative? 
ABUBAKAR: 13. 
BRENNAN: 13. Ayden, what's your initiative? 
NICK: 10. 
BRENNAN: 10. Trist, what is your initiative? 
ASHLEY: 12. 
BRENNAN: 12, lovely. Emissary, what is your initiative? 
NOSHIR: 27. (ooh-ing) 
BRENNAN: Holy shit, that's very, very, very good. 
NICK: Turns out, when you get advantage and plus 10, it's a good time. 
NOSHIR: Pretty good. 
NICK: The Emissary don't mess around. 
BRENNAN: Incredible. We are going to move into combat. Emissary, you are first to go. 
NOSHIR: Oh, geez. 
BRENNAN: 27! 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: We're all here? 
BRENNAN: All of you are just outside the door. 
TALIESIN: Gotcha. 
BRENNAN: So SILAHA's only a few-- 
TALIESIN: Plenty of Betrayer Gods, the whole kit and caboodle. 
BRENNAN: Betrayer Gods. You've got Zaharzht-- Right now, you have Milo, Zaharzht, and Tishar. 
TALIESIN: Gotcha. Thank you. 
BRENNAN: Emissary, you are first to act. 
NOSHIR: So SILAHA's, through the bond, told us what he sees. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. Everything. 
NOSHIR: Do we see wards on the main level, or only those three that are at the top? 
BRENNAN: You see the wards on the main level as well. You see that there are wards on the main level. 
NICK: Those are these things? 
BRENNAN: Yes, those things there on the main level. 
LAURA: And they are the wards. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, the massive orbs on top are the higher wards. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Which you know are potency, vitality, and magic. The lower wards, prowess, vigor, resistance, and awareness. 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
LAURA: Jesus. 
NOSHIR: Would SILAHA know from, I don't know, reading Aeorian glyphs or whatever, what each one is? Or is it just, therefore, and we won't know until we get there? 
BRENNAN: You can make arcana checks, and I won't make you burn an action to do them, but you have to have visibility on the ward to know which one it is. 
NICK: Okay. 
NOSHIR: Right. 
BRENNAN: So but you know loosely what levels, and with an arcana check, I'll call it a DC 20 arcana check. If you have line of sight, you can identify a ward. 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: You can do that for free on your turn. So once per turn, you can pick a ward, and if you hit the skill check, you're like, what's that? 
TALIESIN: Just to double check, are the wards on the ground, or in the center column, or we don't know? 
LAURA: The wards are these little things. 
TALIESIN: Okay, the outside. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
NOSHIR: How far are we from-- 
NICK: 60 feet, I think he said? 
BRENNAN: Yeah, about 60 feet from where SILAHA is. 
LAURA: Depending on what wards we hit, things will be more accessible? 
BRENNAN: Correct. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: So for you to know, the Fulcrum Princeps, which are these seven wards in total that create the Latimus Princeps, they are basically, the mages of Aeor have segmented divine power into seven categories, right? So certain aspects of your divine selves are being kept away. You need all seven to assume full godhood, but one by one, as they drop, elements of your divine nature will-- 
NOSHIR: Oh shit! 
LAURA: Oh, sick! 
BRENNAN: So let me be clear. If a TPK is going to happen, it's going to happen in the next 20 minutes. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
BRENNAN: Or at least, there's an 80% chance, if we're doing the Doctor Strange thing, these guys want to kill you right now, and in fact, as the angel draws his sword, this guy in the lead, this tiny little wizard up front, goes like, "Destroy them! Destroy them now! Destroy them before they have a chance!" 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: That seems to be the energy in the room, as they're going to unload-- 
NICK: The vibe in the room. 
BRENNAN: The vibe in the room is-- 
NICK: Kill with extreme prejudice. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, is kill with extreme prejudice. In other words, the thing you're aware of is the same game they're playing. They're not here to have a fun scrap. They know you're here to destroy this thing. 
NICK: We just want to talk, guys. 
BRENNAN: We just want to talk. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Incredible. 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
TALIESIN: So yeah, we take those things out fast and hard. 
NOSHIR: I was thinking rage and then dash? 
NICK: Yeah, but don't move out of 60. 
NOSHIR: Oh, fuck me. So I've got to go basically right next to SILAHA. 
NICK: You could go-- Yeah, I think that would-- Yeah, I think so. 
LAURA: Are they concentrating on things? 
BRENNAN: Looks like it. 
TALIESIN: Next to SILAHA means he'll be 30 feet away from, still in that 60 foot radius, from SILAHA, if he rages. 
NOSHIR: All right, so if I-- 
TALIESIN: Right? 
NOSHIR: As long as I stay within 30 feet of SILAHA-- 
LAURA: Just take out a ward. Just go in and destroy a ward, straight off the bat. 
NICK: We have to stay within 60 feet of one another. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
NOSHIR: Oh, I see, I see. 
NICK: You and I. Everyone else just has to be 30 feet from someone else. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
NOSHIR: Right, right. 
ABUBAKAR: We also have the Betrayer Gods, thank fuck, so anyway-- 
TALIESIN: That is a phrase. 
LAURA: Yeah, we do. I wonder what they rolled. 
TALIESIN: We'll find out. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
NICK: I can't imagine Father Milo will tell us. 
NOSHIR: So in order to actually get onto the platform, we have to make a move, and then is that an athletic? 
BRENNAN: Yes, you would make an athletics to leap and not fall 80 feet to the bottom of the chamber. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
NICK: It's a DC 10, though, I think. It's not hard. 
LAURA: What if we just suck ass, then? 
NICK: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: That would be very funny. 
LAURA: That's how we take out the gods. They just fall. 
NICK: Gravity. Gravity destroyed the gods. 
TALIESIN: Well, that went better than we thought. 
NICK: One by one, the gods threw themselves from the cliff. And not one made it. 
ABUBAKAR: We built this weapon for what? (laughter) 
LAURA: Oh, I think it's not on. It got turned off. 
BRENNAN: Yes, it's turned off for right now. 
ASHLEY: It's turned off. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
NICK: Get closer to it. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, okay, okay. 
NOSHIR: So I'm going to dash to the end of the platform. 
BRENNAN: Great, and you have 40 feet of movement, so you get almost all the way there, and here is The Emissary. 
NICK: So sick! 
LAURA: Oh, cool! 
BRENNAN: You use your movement, and then you use your dash. You close in side by side with SILAHA. Is there anything else that you're doing? Do you have a bonus action? 
NOSHIR: Well, because I have Charger, I have a bonus action, but it's only for attacking or shoving. 
NICK: Does it have to be melee, or can you throw your thing? 
NOSHIR: I mean, I can throw it. Yeah, I could throw it. Can I-- So if it's not going to consume an action, could I do an arcana check to see what the nearest ward is? 
BRENNAN: Hell yes. Give me an arcana check, DC 20. 
NOSHIR: Nope, that's a 10. 
BRENNAN: That is a 10. Okay, yeah. The wards are spinning by you on these massive arms, and you can't get close enough to see what they might be keyed to. Any other actions from you? 
NOSHIR: Yeah, I'm going to extend my Scales of Justice and hurl it at the nearest ward. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. 
ASHLEY: Cool. 
BRENNAN: What is the range on that? 
NOSHIR: The range on it is-- Oh, we talked about this already. This was 40 feet. 
BRENNAN: Ooh! Sick, okay, great. You can absolutely do that. This is a bonus action, correct? Or no, this is-- 
NICK: This is a bonus action at the end of a charge. 
BRENNAN: End of a charge. 
NICK: At the end of a dash, because of Charger. 
BRENNAN: Gotcha, sick. Go ahead and make your attack roll. 
ASHLEY: Come on, come on. 
NOSHIR: So that's 31. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
BRENNAN: 31 is absolutely going to hit. 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: These lower wards-- Actually, you know what, I'm going to be a little bit mean, because you're on a static platform and you're attacking a moving thing, so I'm going to ask you to make that attack with disadvantage. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to use my Restore Balance and make it a normal-- 
BRENNAN: (laughs) Sick! 
ABUBAKAR: Not going to happen. 
BRENNAN: So you roll up, The Emissary-- 
NICK: Already popping off. 
BRENNAN: Already popping off, and SILAHA, you look and you're like, "The balance," and move things back. So that's a straight roll. You hit on a 31. This has a damage threshold of 15. You hit on a 31. This has a damage threshold of 15. 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Meaning, you need to do at least 15 points of damage to wound it at all. 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: It has a certain number of hit points that you will discover after you attack, but go ahead and roll your attack. 
NOSHIR: So I rolled 18 damage on the throw. 
BRENNAN: Incredible. 
NOSHIR: I also have-- Oh shit, shit. How far is the ward from me, in actual reach? 
BRENNAN: As it passes you, it's only about 15 feet away. 
NOSHIR: Okay, that's just out of reach, isn't it? So I have Demolishing Might. 
BRENNAN: What does Demolishing Might do? 
NICK: It... is sick. (laughter) 
NOSHIR: "Your melee weapon attacks deal an extra 1d8 damage to constructs, and deal double damage to objects and structures." 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
LAURA: Great. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I was not prepared for this. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: This is happening a little too fast. (laughter) 
NOSHIR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Incredible. Okay. 
NICK: So sick. 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. Okay. Noshir, you deal 18, so that's double damage? 
NOSHIR: So 36. 
BRENNAN: (sighs) This fucking sucks. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: We are going to stay true. Emissary, you rush forward. This is it, the object of divine retribution. What do you say as you charge forward? 
NOSHIR: (inhales) (clears throat) I don't think I say anything. It's a war cry. A war cry, and an animalistic rageful yell as I throw it. 
BRENNAN: Hell yes. One moment, gang. As we dive in. Ah, this, I can't believe it. Okay, so I'm going to roll. Okay. 
TALIESIN: There's my emergency-- 
BRENNAN: Okay. If you'd do me a favor, Noshir, read this to the table as you shatter the first of the lower wards in a single strike of your axe. 
TALIESIN: 35, 35, all right. 
NOSHIR: "Divine Prowess. After rolling a skill check, double the result. After calculating all bonuses, double all passive skills." 
ABUBAKAR: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
LAURA: Wait, wait, wait. 
TALIESIN: Wait, wait, wait. What? 
LAURA: Say that again. 
NOSHIR: "After rolling a skill check, double the result." 
LAURA: (gasps) 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my god! 
NOSHIR: "After calculating all bonuses, double all passive skills." 
ABUBAKAR: Protect The Emissary. (laughter) 
ABUBAKAR: At all costs! What? 
NICK: Double all pa-- 
NOSHIR: But we unlock that for everyone? 
LAURA: That's, everybody gets it. 
BRENNAN: Everybody. Trist, in the scroll banks. All of you suddenly feel Divine Prowess. (laughter) 
LAURA: Sick. Wait, I got to read it. 
BRENNAN: Oh, you don't have to read. Here you go. Everybody's got one. 
NOSHIR: Everybody! 
BRENNAN: Pass them down. 
NOSHIR: Divine prowess! 
ASHLEY: And you get a divine prowess! 
BRENNAN: Pass them down. Here we go. 
ASHLEY and TALIESIN: And you get a divine prowess! 
NICK: Double all passive skills. 
ASHLEY: Thank you. Okay. 
BRENNAN: Watching-- 
NOSHIR: I'm waiting for Nick to turn this into-- 
LAURA: Double passive skills. Oh, like passive perception-- 
TALIESIN: Wait, I got Potency. I don't think you meant to give me Potency. 
BRENNAN: Oh no, I did not mean to give you Potency. 
TALIESIN: No, no. I didn't even look. I got it. 
BRENNAN: It should only say "Prowess" on it. Does everyone have Prowess? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Here we go. Hold on. 
NICK: So after rolling a skill check, double the result. I get that. After calculating all bonuses, double all pass-- So if I have a passive wis perception of 21, I now have a passive perception of 42? 
LAURA and ASHLEY: Oh! 
BRENNAN: 42. That is correct. 
NICK: Sneak by me. I dare you. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Try it. Try it! (laughter) 
BRENNAN: I will say, Emissary and SILAHA, as your passive perception moves past 30 something, you know, like it's this enormous-- All of you suddenly feel it's arcana, survival, intimidation, deception are-- all of these skills. Suddenly, as this ward cracks, the Latimus Princeps shifts. It is now holding only six of these seven forces back. 
LAURA: No! 
BRENNAN: All of you feel, you sing the songs of creation. You know the crafting not of machines, but of souls and realities. As your divine prowess returns to you and all of you begin to thrum and glow, as your mortal bodies realize they are perhaps moments away from not being able to contain you. 
ABUBAKAR: Whoa. This is gorgeous. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) Okay. Well, that happened a little faster than I thought it would. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: As this moves away, Emissary, that is your turn. We are going to continue. Sick first move, man. 
NICK: Sick first move. 
LAURA: Sick first move. 
BRENNAN: You, SILAHA and The Emissary, you become aware that there are massive invisible creatures in this room. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: With that, at the end of your turn, Emissary. 
LAURA: Oh, I bet that's the dragon. I bet the dragon is invisible. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
NOSHIR: Oh mercy. 
ASHLEY and LAURA: Who dere? 
ABUBAKAR: Well, if it's a death dragon, you should be able to feel it, right? Well, you're invisible, too. 
BRENNAN: I'm going to need SILAHA and The Emissary to make dexterity saving throws. 
ABUBAKAR: Which is going to be double, right? So-- was it save? 
TALIESIN and NICK: No. 
BRENNAN: No, no, no. 
ABUBAKAR: So this won't be double. 
BRENNAN: That's just skills. 
ABUBAKAR: All right, cool. Dex save. Bap! 
NICK: You can, if you would like, use this moment to add your 1d4 from Emboldening Bond because two were next to each other. 
ABUBAKAR: Can I only use it once? 
NICK: You can use it once a turn. 
TALIESIN: Once a turn. 
NOSHIR: Oh, hell yeah. I will do that. 
NICK: Once a turn. I mean, and this is not a spell, so this is going to be active on us. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh. I could do it once a turn. 
NICK: Okay. Every turn. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to save it just in case. So because I got quite a high roll. 22 is my save. 
BRENNAN: 22. 
NICK: Just tell me if you've used it and I'll keep track of everything and stuff and remind people. 
ABUBAKAR: Sure. 
NICK: Of the buffs I hand out. 
ASHLEY: Amazing. 
NOSHIR: Yeah. My dexterity check was only 15. 
NICK: Did you use your Emboldening Bond? 
NOSHIR: I did. I did. 
NICK: Oof. 
ASHLEY: Shit. 
NOSHIR: Because otherwise it would've been really bad. 
BRENNAN: Let me know... You got 22 and what did The Emissary get? 
NOSHIR: 15. 
BRENNAN: Each of-- you each take 14 points of fire damage and 14 points of radiant damage. Failing these saves as Acastriel-- 
NOSHIR: Wow. 
BRENNAN: -- as Acastriel-- 
NICK: Is this a spell? 
BRENNAN: No, it is not a spell. 
NICK: Okay. You take half damage and I will take the rest. 
BRENNAN: Did you put a Warding Bond on SILAHA as well? 
LAURA: I did. 
BRENNAN: So you take half. So the four of you at the end of the table, will each take 14. 
ABUBAKAR: 14. 
NICK: You did Warding Bond or Death Ward? 
ASHLEY: I did Death Ward. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. Oh, Death Ward. Sorry. 
ASHLEY: Death Ward. 
BRENNAN: So you're going to take the full, you take 28. You each take 14. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: That is half fire damage, half radiant damage as Acastriel looks and says, "Defend the wards, defend the wards with your life. Ready the machine!" 
ASHLEY: Shit. 
LAURA: Shit, shit. 
BRENNAN: That is going to be their turn. This one broken. You see this Irrevocable turn and stand squat over the ward here. 
NICK: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Just hunkers down. As he passes, he's going to take a swipe in the movement with you. Okay, I am going to need wisdom saving throws from SILAHA and The Emissary. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, Jesus Christ, man. (laughter) 
LAURA: Add a d4. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh nah, there's no point now. I've got six. 
LAURA: Oh, ugh. 
NOSHIR: 19. 
BRENNAN: Got a six and a 19? Each of you takes 45 radiant damage. As this Irrevocable comes past and goes like, "Enemies of Aeor." (screeching swooshes) A blast of light deals 45 radiant damage to each of you. 
ASHLEY: Whoa! 
LAURA: (gasps) 
NICK: You take 23. 
NOSHIR: 23. 
NICK: And I take 23. 
BRENNAN: I'm going to say something now, unfortunately, on that, of the wisdom saving throw. 
NICK: That was not spell, either. 
BRENNAN: Not spell either. On that wisdom saving throw, you each are stunned. 
LAURA: Oh no. 
BRENNAN: Stunned is bad, bad, bad. 
TALIESIN: Stunned is very bad. 
ABUBAKAR: Great. What was it again? How much damage? 
BRENNAN: 45. 
ABUBAKAR: 45. So okay, cool. So that will be, oh, quick math. Okay. 
BRENNAN: Also, SILAHA, I'm going to need two concentration saving throws for Protection from Evil and Good. I believe Protection from Evil and Good is not going to stop-- 
ABUBAKAR: So two concentration throws, right? 
BRENNAN: Yes. I will say, by the way-- Hold on, sorry. 
LAURA: Because stunned is going to to do some fucking damage. 
BRENNAN: (mumbled reading) 
LAURA: It's instant advantage against them. 
BRENNAN: "Creatures have disadvantage on attacks against the target." Cool, copy that. Yes, so 45 Radiant. You are stunned. To read the stunned condition again to both of you, which is, stunned is quite bad. 
LAURA: Quite, quite bad. 
BRENNAN: So you are (booms) hit by the might of Aeor, reflections of god-killing technology exist within these constructs and come rocketing towards you. You are incapacitated, cannot move, and can speak only falteringly, automatically fail strength and dexterity saving throws, attack rolls against you have advantage. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: So this one over here-- 
ABUBAKAR: Let me just roll my-- 
TALIESIN: Hey! 
ABUBAKAR: 16, that's fine. And 19. I'm good. 
NOSHIR: I need to remember for next time I have Danger Sense. 
BRENNAN: Moving from here. That one can't get a blast on you. 
NOSHIR: Which means I could've taken less on a dexterity roll. 
NICK: You could've-- We missed an advantage. on dex saves over here. 
LAURA: Oh no. 
NOSHIR: There will be more. 
NICK: We'll make them pay for it. 
BRENNAN: This one over here charges, ducks underneath the spinning platform above it and goes to squat on top of this other ward over here. 
LAURA: I like to imagine as he ran under, he went-- (silly scuttling sounds) 
BRENNAN: "Excuse me." 
NICK: Wide leg stance. 
NOSHIR: Crab shuffle. 
BRENNAN: A hundred percent. (thinking noises) Okay. Yeah. Squats over there. That is going to actually be the end of its turn as it protects that ward. It's getting nasty over here, guys. My sincere apologies. We had some enemies roll very well. 
LAURA: Oh no. 
BRENNAN: For their initiative. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 
LAURA: Oh no, and it's just you guys out there. 
BRENNAN: Surging forward from invisibility directly behind you. (grunts) (horrified gasps) 
BRENNAN: A glabrezu-- 
LAURA: No! 
ASHLEY: What?! 
LAURA: That's what got you before! 
BRENNAN: That's what got you before. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
BRENNAN: The Everlight and a glabrezu. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: Okay. You were both stunned. It's going to make its attacks with advantage, therefore. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
ABUBAKAR: Can I do Restore Balance? 
BRENNAN: Huh? 
ABUBAKAR: Can I do Restore Balance or as a-- no, I've already done my reaction. 
BRENNAN: I think you've already done your reaction, yeah. So it's going to make its attacks. Your armor class, SILAHA-- Oh, give me two concentration saving throws for Protection from Evil and Good. 
ABUBAKAR: I just did them. 
BRENNAN: Oh, you did. 
ABUBAKAR: 16 and a 19. 
BRENNAN: So you made your-- You still are holding on to the spell. Okay, so we'll be rolling flat, not advantage or disadvantage against you. So it's going to go, that is a miss on the first attack. That is a hit on the second attack. You take seven points of bludgeoning damage from a fist, boom, that thuds into you. It's also going to make attacks against The Emissary. These ones it will make with advantage. 
ABUBAKAR: Seven-- 
TALIESIN: Oh sorry. 
LAURA: Do you want to-- 
BRENNAN: Oh my god, with advantage, it misses its first attack against The Emissary. You are stunned. Its massive claw tries to come down and it doesn't make it happen in that time. It's going to make another attack with advantage with its fist. That one's going to hit. Seven points of damage to The Emissary, bludgeoning. 
NICK: So four and four. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
NICK: Ayden is just back here like-- 
LAURA and NICK: Ow! 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Do you have Tylenol or something? You all right? 
NICK: I've taken 41 points of damage. I'm not even in the battle yet. 
BRENNAN: Wow. 
NOSHIR: That was four points of damage, right? 
NICK: Yeah, yeah. 
BRENNAN: Hovering malevolently in the air over you, a massive nalfeshnee is going to swing on, I guess The Emissary again who just shattered a ward. 
NOSHIR: (giggles) 
ASHLEY: What the heck is that? 
LAURA: No. Wait, what, what, what, what is it? 
ABUBAKAR: These guys all need punishment once we've got out of this, by the way. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
NICK: What just appeared? The little freaky guy. 
BRENNAN: Emissary. The nalfeshnee, these are the bound demons. You can see the bindings and collars on them from the archmagi above. The nalfeshnee reaches forward, bites into you for 32 points of damage. 
NICK: 16. 
BRENNAN: Ayden is doing a lot of work out here. 
NOSHIR: Thanks, bro! 
BRENNAN: You guys watch a 15-year-old out behind the catwalk preparing to charge in and this 15-year-old boy begins to have cuts like stigmata style open all over his body as The Emissary is attacked by demons. That's a miss on the second attack. And on the last one. That's a miss as well on both claw attacks from the nalfeshnee. 
NICK and NOSHIR: (relieved sigh) 
BRENNAN: Okay. The-- Ooh, this is so bad. 
ABUBAKAR: God. How well did these guys roll? 
BRENNAN: They rolled quite well. 
LAURA: They all rolled high. 
BRENNAN: Running, he turns and says, "Protect the wards with your life! I'll take care of these interlopers." Leaps and transforms in mid air. 
TALIESIN: No. No. 
NICK: Hell yeah. 
NICK: Listen, these guys-- 
BRENNAN: (feral screams) 
ASHLEY: Oh no! 
BRENNAN: You guys are the gods. 
TALIESIN: I fucking knew it! 
BRENNAN: So it's demons, it's angels. It's dragons. It's all of them. It's all coming. Everybody. Everybody pissed. Everybody mad. 
NICK: You're telling me this dungeon has a dragon in it? (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. 
ASHLEY: (excited noises) 
BRENNAN: I'm going to-- Well, you automatically fail dex saves. 
NICK: They need to think they have a chance. 
BRENNAN: SILAHA and The Emissary, you each take 45 fire damage. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
ABUBAKAR: What?! 
NICK: 23. 
LAURA: Don't die. Okay? 
ABUBAKAR: Like, it's not even-- This is like the reverse of the last session, right? 
LAURA: Yeah. I mean, yeah. 
ASHLEY: But, but, but-- 
NOSHIR: In six seconds, we're going to get flattened. 
TALIESIN: 45 in damage. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, okay. 
TALIESIN: It'll just math for you. 
NICK: So you're at what? 
NOSHIR: 205. 
ASHLEY: 205?! 
TALIESIN: I saw you, I was like, I'm going to let that other one go. 
ABUBAKAR: Thank you. 
TALIESIN: Here to help. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh wow. 
TALIESIN: I mean, you know. 
BRENNAN: How are SILAHA and The Emissary looking right now? 
ABUBAKAR: I mean, I've got 128 hit points out of 223. 
BRENNAN: Gotcha, so these guys are trying to make as quickly as possible. 
ABUBAKAR: They are, they are. Six seconds, man. 
BRENNAN: Six seconds. 
NICK: I'm, yeah. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NOSHIR: Not been doing so hot. 
BRENNAN: Unbelievably given-- 
NICK: We've taken 160 damage between the two of us. 
BRENNAN: -- how this all works. You see (thinking noises). 
NICK: I'm glad I cast the fucking spell on you. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) Yeah! 
NICK: Because you're going to be destroying all of the wards. 
LAURA: But all of us have the ability to, if they're taking damage, as our reaction, we can teleport? 
NICK: As long as you're within 30 feet. 
LAURA: And we're within 30 feet of them, aren't we? 
NICK: No, we're 60 behind. 
BRENNAN: 60 behind. 
LAURA: Got it. 
BRENNAN: You see that Zaharzht leans over and says, "Let us show them the truth." 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: "Charge!" (laughter) 
NICK: Still not on the table! 
BRENNAN: Tishar is like, "We literally could pick any body, any kind of creature. It was totally our call. I don't get it!" (laughter) 
BRENNAN: And Zaharzht is going to start wiggling out there behind you. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
BRENNAN: As fast as his little legs can carry him. That is going to be Emhira's turn. 
LAURA: Oh god, that's so fast! Bu-- Okay. Okay. Okay! 
BRENNAN: You are 60 feet away. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: You are invisible. 
LAURA: Yuh-huh. 
BRENNAN: And we're going to give you-- Where is your-- Where's your miniature? 
TALIESIN: Shit. 60 feet, that's fine. 
BRENNAN: Here we go. 
LAURA: ♪ I want to vomit ♪ 
NICK: Remember as a reaction, once we are within 30 feet of our allies, as a reaction, if they take damage, we can teleport to within five feet of them. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
NICK: So we're going to be able to move around this board a little bit more tactically than they might imagine. 
BRENNAN: Invisible right here. 
NICK: As a result, you take the damage. 
BRENNAN: Okay, so. 
LAURA: I'm not quite-- Okay. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. But we have your mini, so it's up to you to determine what it is you want to do. 
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to throw up, and then, okay, I'm invisible. (exhales) For my bonus action, I'm going to invisibly-- No. Mm. Yes. I'm going to send one of my motes from my Crown of Stars. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
LAURA: I'm going to send it-- I'm going to send it up and try to hit one of the top wards. 
BRENNAN: Hell yes. What's the range on that? 
LAURA: 120 feet. 
BRENNAN: Ooh. Unbelievable. Okay. You have got it, no problem. You're going to send one of the motes from that, from your Crown of Stars. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Give me an attack roll on one of the upper wards. 
TALIESIN: Remember your d4. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm. 
NICK: Uh. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. Okay. 
NICK: Yeah. On attack rolls, too. Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. So that's a 20-- Oh good. That's great, 26. 
BRENNAN: 26 is a hit. Go ahead and roll damage. The damage threshold of these upper wards is 25. The damage threshold of these upper wards is 25. So you have to do at least 25 damage to damage them. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: That's why we need The Emissary, man. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
NICK: That's why I'm trying to keep him alive. (laughter) 
NOSHIR: Thank you! 
NICK: Severe cost to my own life. 
ASHLEY: You're doing a great job. 
BRENNAN: Huge, severe cost to myself. 
LAURA: 25 plus seven, 25 plus seven is 32. 32 points of damage. 
BRENNAN: Holy shit. Okay. 
ASHLEY: Yes, baby. 
BRENNAN: You overcome the threshold and you watch as, from seemingly nowhere, a mote of light streaks out with a screaming, scintillating croak like a raven made of electricity and force and slams into one of the wards up above dealing 32 points of damage. You watch that upper ward go from being completely fine to starting to spark and look quite injured, quite like, quite demolished. It is still active, but you've dealt 32 points of damage to it. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
LAURA: In addition to that, I am going to ca-- Can I El-- I'm going to Eldritch Blast it. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah! I believe the Crown of Stars isn't casting a spell. 
LAURA: Exactly, that's a bonus action because I already cast it, so I can Eldritch Blast it. 
BRENNAN: Fuck yeah. Give me the Eldritch Blast. 
LAURA: Okay, so-- 
NOSHIR: That's awesome. 
NICK: Hell yes. 
LAURA: But here's a question. Because if the Eldritch Blast is four hits, does each hit have to be above 25, or I've already damaged it? So how does that work? 
BRENNAN: Oh, shit. Each one would have to be above 25 because they're separate attacks. 
LAURA: Okay, then I'm not going to do that to them because that would be pointless. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
NICK: You don't want to just rip it off the dais? 
BRENNAN and LAURA: (laugh) 
LAURA: That would be great. 
ABUBAKAR: You could Fly it-- (coughs) Oh, no, you can't because it's being blocked. 
LAURA: In that case, I'm going to cast Shatter-- 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
LAURA: -- on this buddy in front of us. 
BRENNAN: Sick. Okay, great. You're going from one of the Irrevocables. We're going to go ahead-- Okay. Shatter. He's going to roll. 
LAURA: I'm going to cast it his feet. It's 10 feet. Hopefully I can shatter some of the ground around the ward as well. 
BRENNAN: Ooh, that's a great point! Yes, absolutely. And you are invisible. Now are you casting Greater Invisibility? Does spellcasting bust you out of this invisibility? 
LAURA: That will bring invisibility out, yeah. 
BRENNAN: Great. So no one can counter it because of your invisibility as you're casting it, but it's going to break your invisibility. Amazing. So go ahead and roll damage for this Shatter. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Let's go, let's go, let's go. 
LAURA: So that is 6d8. 
ABUBAKAR: Ooh. 
NOSHIR: What?! 
ASHLEY: Damn, girl! 
ABUBAKAR: Jesus. 
LAURA: Where's my eights? Where's my eights? 
TALIESIN: Ruin it. 
LAURA: Those are my 10s. These are my eights. 
NICK: Woo! 
NOSHIR: I like fighting alongside gods. 
LAURA: 13 plus two is 15. 16 plus eight is 24, plus three is 27. 
BRENNAN: 27 points of damage to the ward under-- 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Incredible. 
NICK: Hell yeah. 
LAURA: He has to make a constitution saving throw, but he's at disadvantage because he is inorganic material. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Oh, he makes a saving throw against it, but he's inorganic material, so he makes it with disadvantage? 
LAURA: So he has disadvantage. 
BRENNAN: So we're going to roll straight because he also has advantage against spells. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: That's a nat 20. He makes his save. 
LAURA: (blows raspberry) 
TALIESIN: Boo! 
LAURA: Fuck that guy! 
BRENNAN: Hate it when the bad guys crit. Bad guys? 
LAURA: So that's half damage against him. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: For a second, I forgot we're doing a kind of philosophical thing here. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Aren't we all? 
BRENNAN: So you deal 27 points of damage. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
BRENNAN: Does Shatter have anything about it doing more damage to objects or not? 
LAURA: No, it's only if it's non-magical objects. 
BRENNAN: Okay. This is a magical object. Got it. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Cool, cool, cool. 
LAURA: So like the ground. 
BRENNAN: Amazing. So you deal 27. That ward is still up. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: But you have badly damaged two more of the wards on the battlefield. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Nice! 
BRENNAN: ♪ Da-da-da ♪ That's 27. Okay. Unbelievable. At the end of your turn, a bunch of stuff is going to happen. You are now visible. 
LAURA: But I'm hanging back. I'm still at a distance. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
LAURA: I never stepped up-- Well, I guess I'm within 60 feet of that thing, of Shatter. 
BRENNAN: Yes, absolutely. 
NICK: So you moved your movement or something? 
LAURA: I moved up and then I moved back. 
NICK: Ran past the tortle? 
LAURA: Yeah! (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Okay. This is now going to be-- Oh wow. Okay. 
NICK: So you moved forward? 
LAURA: I moved forward and then I moved back a bit. 
NICK: Okay. 
LAURA: Just so I could get within range and then back out of range of anything that has a 60 foot-- 
NICK: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Okay. What we're going to do now is this. At the end of your turn, Emhira, the solar is going to use a legendary action to teleport directly in front of you. 
LAURA: Where am I? 
BRENNAN: You're all the way back here 
LAURA: ♪ Where am I ♪ 
BRENNAN: You're all the way back here. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: So he's going to show up here. As he does so, we're going to have him-- ♪ Da-da-da ♪ He's going to take his turn. His turn comes right after you in initiative. As it does so-- Oh, any other actions for you? You used your bonus action, we had a bunch of stuff happen, but I think we're all set, right? Whew! Okay. 
NOSHIR: How many long does stunned last for? 
TALIESIN: One round. 
NICK: One round. 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
TALIESIN: There's not really much you can do about it. 
NOSHIR: Yeah, yeah. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NOSHIR: Lesson learned. 
TALIESIN: No. (goodhearted mumbling) 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
LAURA: Okay. Solar is going to appear beside you and is going to make some attacks here. You see Acastriel, the solar, rushes down. "I am glad that it ends here. Now I will put to rest the ruin you have wrought upon this world!" He is going to swing twice with his greatsword. 
NICK: At Emhira? 
LAURA: At me? 
BRENNAN: At Emhira. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm! 
BRENNAN: Emhira's armor class... Okay. He's going to hit both times. Emhira, you take 22 slashing and 27 radiant twice. 
LAURA: Ooh! 
NICK: You take it once. It was 22 slashing and 27 radiant? 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
NICK: So it's 49? 
BRENNAN: You're taking that? 
NICK: So-- 
LAURA: You're taking-- 
NICK: As he goes to slash her the first time-- 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
NICK: -- I will use Protective Bond. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: Let's say it's the second time. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
NICK: He hits her, and as he hits her again I will use my reaction, teleport next to her, and his sword will drive into me instead of her. 
LAURA: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Oof. 
NICK: I will say: You and I will have words. 
BRENNAN and NOSHIR: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
LAURA: I'm going to peek around and go: Daddy's mad. (laughter) 
LAURA: But on that first hit before he does it-- 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
LAURA: -- he's going to take 25 points back of ice damage because of Armor of Agathys. 
NICK: That was 49 damage? 
BRENNAN: Incredible. Incredible. 25 points of ice you said? 
LAURA: Yes. 
BRENNAN: Amazing. 
LAURA: Oh, no. We said necrotic. It's necrotic damage to him. 
NICK: We're getting fucked up here, team. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Gotcha, gotcha, gotcha. 
LAURA: And then-- 
NICK: I mean, I still have over 100 hit points. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
LAURA: I have Hellish Rebuke, but can I do this as necrotic damage as well because that's my vibe? 
BRENNAN: Yes, absolutely. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Absolutely. 
LAURA: Then in that case, I'm going to Hellish Rebuke that bastard. 
BRENNAN: Hell yes. Go ahead and let me know how much damage you did with your Hellish Rebuke. 
LAURA: Okay, that's 6d10 damage. 
ABUBAKAR: Jesus! 
BRENNAN: Wow! 
ASHLEY: Damn! 
BRENNAN: Okay. But I'm going to need 27 plus 22 is 49. 
NICK: 49. 
BRENNAN: So I'm going to need each of you to make a DC 24 constitution saving throw. 
NICK: You have plus five to this. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: To maintain concentration on your spell. 
NICK: I don't have any concentration. 
BRENNAN: Oh, okay, great! So you're fine. 
LAURA: Okay, I have one concentration. 
BRENNAN: You have one. So this is a DC 24 concentration. Okay. So Trist, you are in the-- 
NICK: Did you add five to that? 
BRENNAN: -- scroll bank with Cassida, Arcadia,-- 
LAURA: It wouldn't matter. 
BRENNAN: -- and Umleta, and believe that Emhira is with you. Emhira suddenly vanishes and all that is left is a raven. Dearest goes, (casual squawk), and seems nonplussed. 
ASHLEY: Okay. All right. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
LAURA: 28... Jesus Christ. 28 plus (quiet math). 37 points of necrotic damage back from Hellish Rebuke 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
BRENNAN: (heavy exhale) Ay-yai-yai! 37 points of necrotic, and you also deal that with your Armor of Agathys? 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
BRENNAN: As this goes to you, you see that the necrotic surges over the celestial and he screams, "(powerful scream)" and repels death itself. You see he goes, "I'm not of the cycle. It's not given to me to die. You made me! You made me to serve, and serve I would! Why are your children bound by rules you will not follow?! If you would have words with me, I'd sooner you dash me upon the rocks of this cursed world, Father!" 
ASHLEY: (groaning) Ooh! 
BRENNAN: As he says that-- Incredible, you've taken half the damage, so you each take 49 points of damage. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
BRENNAN: At the end of that, another legendary action is going to-- 
ABUBAKAR: What is going on? 
LAURA: Fuck! And there's a dragon! (groaning in frustration) 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Oh yeah. It's bad. ♪ Ch-ch-cha ♪ Okay. Misses against Ayden with a tail attack from the dragon. Acastriel is going to make his-- Or no, sorry. That's not his turn. Asha, that is your turn. 
TALIESIN: Where am I? 
BRENNAN: You're 60 feet back. Or actually, from this group over here, you're 30 feet back. 
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to take half my movement to get to them. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Incredible. 
TALIESIN: We'll start there. 
BRENNAN: Asha surges forward. 
TALIESIN: Running very confidently. I can see that ward. How far away is that ward? 
BRENNAN: From you, actually, as it is spinning, as it is about to spin closer to you, it's probably 70 feet away. 
TALIESIN: Okay, I am going to continue my movement then to climb on top of this bad boy up here. 
BRENNAN: This glabrezu? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to climb up on top of him. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: As long as I can still have, I have advantage because-- Or does Stun negate advantage or am I technically flanking? 
BRENNAN: Oh, you cannot use stunned allies to flank. 
BRENNAN: Okay, that's fine. I'm going to get in there with, I'm going to use him as a nice pedestal for a second. As long as I'm within 60 feet of that damn thing-- 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: -- I'm going to take my spear and I'm going to hurl my spear at the one that's already damaged. 
BRENNAN: So this one has the Irrevocable on it. The Irrevocable is squatting over it, preventing-- 
NICK: You're talking about the upper one? 
BRENNAN: Oh, are you talking about the upper-- 
TALIESIN: Not the upper one because I don't think I can hit the damage threshold with just that. 
BRENNAN: Okay. You see that this Irrevocable-- What you can do is if you want to ready an action, this unguarded one is coming around, but the one that this one is guarding, he's fully down here. 
TALIESIN: Mm. All right, this changes a slight-- 
BRENNAN: No worries. 
TALIESIN: Yeah because I have to hold my hold action if I were going to do that and technically my reaction. Fuck that. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Hmm, I hate that I can't do this. Well, I suppose since we're having a little fun up here, I'm going to stab-- I'm pissed that he's there, I'm going to stab on top of this motherfucker. 
BRENNAN: Go for it! 
TALIESIN: And, no. Wish I had (grumbling) damage. 
BRENNAN: (Taliesin mumbled grumbles) 
TALIESIN: Rassen frassen damage. 
BRENNAN: Rassen frassen. 
TALIESIN: So hang on, here we go. I'm nervous. 
BRENNAN: Here we go. 
TALIESIN: Nat 20. (cheering) 
BRENNAN: Hell yes! 
LAURA: It's like I forgot that was possible! 
ASHLEY: Yeah! Yeah, yeah, yeah! 
TALIESIN: Nice if that happened-- I can't use the d4 for damage, I'm well aware of that, right? That d4 you gave me? 
NICK: It's not for damage. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I thought so. Yeah. 
NICK: Yeah, it's for attacks, saving throws, or skill checks. 
TALIESIN: But I will-- Well, I'm going to get into that in a second. Can I put-- 
BRENNAN: Go for it. 
TALIESIN: Where'd it go? I'm learning things. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: Where is that thing? Don't disappear for me. Yeah. I'm going to do this damage first and then-- 
BRENNAN: Yeah, go for it. 
TALIESIN: I think I'm going to attempt to make this a Stunning Strike as well. 
BRENNAN: You're making it a Stunning Strike? Okay, I'll roll-- What's the DC on that for you? 
TALIESIN: It's a 19 con save. 
BRENNAN: 19 con save. Let's see if homeboy can make a 19 con save. Stun is huge enough I'm going to roll this in front of the board. Because this dude needs to get a 10 or higher to save against this. That is a nine! (cheering) 
BRENNAN: So you thwack down as this demon straight from the Abyss, a creature of pure shadow and evil chaos, straight up gets his bell rung. 
TALIESIN: That little knife gets right there between the spinal points. 28 points of damage. 
BRENNAN: Holy shit! Okay. 
TALIESIN: Let's see. Yeah, mostly poison damage. I don't know if that-- 
BRENNAN: Oh, poison damage would not affect this creature. 
TALIESIN: Oh, in that case it's-- (mental math) I did that wrong, hold on. Let me reroll then, fuck. 
BRENNAN: You got it. No, no, you're good. 
TALIESIN: I didn't keep track of that as I should. 
TALIESIN: Eight, nine, 10... That's still 21, fuck it. But, yeah. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 21 points of damage as you thunder down on top of this massive demon. That's your first attack? 
TALIESIN: Yes. 
BRENNAN: Go ahead and roll your second. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, second attack. Now he's stunned. I technically have advantage, don't I? 
BRENNAN: You have an advantage! Yeah! 
TALIESIN: Yeah, look at that. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I am that person today. Here we go. I'm too nervous to be playing this game. Yeah, thank god for advantage. That hits. 18, 28, 34 to hit. 
BRENNAN: Yes. Hell yeah. Go ahead and roll damage. 
TALIESIN: Since this is now, I'm no longer doing poison damage anyway because I'm doing 1d10 plus five. 
NICK: No, no. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: That's nine points of damage. 
BRENNAN: Nine points of damage. Yes. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to do one other thing since I'm up here. Where did it go? I'm trying to find the-- He's from the Abyss, isn't he? 
LAURA: Meteor Storm. 
BRENNAN: Yes, he's from the Abyss. 
LAURA: Meteor Storm. 
TALIESIN: Well, fuck me. 
ABUBAKAR: No, I want that magic ward to die. 
TALIESIN: In that case, I'm going to take-- 
LAURA: Which one's which, though? 
ABUBAKAR: That's it. 
LAURA: Maybe I'm hitting it. 
ABUBAKAR: I hope so! 
TALIESIN: I'm going to take Patient Defense. I'm going to put Patient Defense up and I'm going to-- God, there's nowhere clear to stand, is there? I'm going to try and take a little bit of cover from the dragon on the other side of this thing now that he's fucked up. So I'm going to get off the top of him and hide behind him using him as a shield. 
BRENNAN: Okay, you're going to get off of him and hide, so get cover from the dragon behind him? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to hop down there. 
BRENNAN: Sick. 
TALIESIN: And just try and-- 
BRENNAN: Dope. 
TALIESIN: I know a lot's happening. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. Hell yeah. Any other bonus actions from you? 
TALIESIN: No. Patient Defense is a bonus action. 
BRENNAN: Okay. There you go. So you have the dodge action up. Incredible. 
TALIESIN: Yep. 
BRENNAN: We move from there further down in initiative. Another shape up here, this person, is going to lean over here and say, "We fight them here the way we're taught. We fight them now!" And leaps off over on this side. And, do-do-do. 
ABUBAKAR: I swear to god, if he turns into a dragon-- 
NICK: He's going to turn into a dragon. 
ASHLEY: He's going to turn into a something. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: It's a pegasus. I was not prepared for pegasus. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Shit! Now we're real-- 
LAURA: What is he getting? 
BRENNAN: (whooshes) Silver dragon. 
ASHLEY: Oh no! 
LAURA: Silver dragon! 
NOSHIR: What? 
BRENNAN: Is going to roar over here. 
LAURA: Oh god-dah. 
NICK: This is rough. 
ASHLEY: This is rough! 
LAURA: What if we all die? It's up to you. 
BRENNAN: I'm throwing the whole book at you guys. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: I know that everyone watching at home is like, "This is a CR 100 encounter!" You saw what the first ward did, right? (laughter) 
BRENNAN: So, like. It all comes down to this, okay? 
LAURA: We got to get those wards out! 
BRENNAN: I am going to need-- 
LAURA: Freaking out. 
BRENNAN: As that is happening, actually, we're going to do a few-- 
LAURA: Oh no, and you're stunned. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
LAURA: So you won't even be able to go on your turn. 
ABUBAKAR: I know. I'll be like: And I'll wait! 
BRENNAN: Another attack misses Ayden with that 23 armor class from the brass dragon. The solar down in the mix now, however-- 
TALIESIN: Did my best. I'm tempted to try and step in front of that thing. 
NICK: Solar has legendary actions, I believe. 
NOSHIR: Oh, for fuck's sake. 
NICK: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: The solar is going to look at you-- 
LAURA: Uh-huh. 
BRENNAN: -- with your ranged spells, and go, "You do not deserve the gift of sight. You do not deserve to bear witness to this world!" His eyes glow impossibly bright. I'm going to need a constitution saving throw from you. 
LAURA: I'm going to Counterspell. 
BRENNAN: It is not a spell. 
LAURA: Fuck! It doesn't matter, I couldn't do it, anyway, because I already used my reaction. 
NICK: You get plus five to this roll, though, because you're within 10 feet of me. 
LAURA: I'm making a what? 
NICK: Constitution. 
BRENNAN: Constitution. I will let you know, this is a lower DC than his other abilities. So what do you add to constitution? 
LAURA: Six. 
NICK: So it becomes an 11, though. 
LAURA: Okay. I add 11. 
NICK: Because you're five feet-- Oh, because this is just a save. Yeah, everyone within 10 feet of me gets plus five on saves. 
LAURA: That went from a 13 to a one. 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
BRENNAN: A nat one? Ayden, holding hope that some different path will reveal itself here, Acastriel looks at the Matron, looks at you. "You will strike nothing." You feel the retinas of your eyes burn out and you are blinded. That is that legendary action. I'm going to need dexterity saves, which you will now make, I believe, with dis-- Let me double check that here. Hold on. 
LAURA: Attacks have advantage against me. 
BRENNAN: No, actually dexterity isn't affected by the blinded condition. 
LAURA: Uh-uh. 
BRENNAN: So the silver dragon, roaring down there, is going to-- Is going to go ahead, and actually, I don't think she's going to fuck with the Cold Breath. I think that she's going to go for the Paralyzing Breath. I'm going to need constitution saves from Ayden, Emhira, and Zaharzht. 
NICK: Is this a spell or magical effect? 
BRENNAN: It is not. This is a breath weapon. 
NICK: This is a breath weapon. You said, what was it? Constitution? 
BRENNAN: Constitution. Yep. 
LAURA: Yes. Wait, wait, wait. That was a spell cast within five feet of me before, right? 
NICK: No. 
BRENNAN: No. These are dragons and angels. They don't cast spells, they're just naturally-- 
NICK: Oh! 
NOSHIR: Oh! 
BRENNAN: What is that? 
NICK: That's a 37 on a nat 20. (laughter) (cheering) 
BRENNAN: Okay! 
LAURA: What are we rolling? 
BRENNAN: Okay! 
LAURA: I'm scared! 
BRENNAN: Another constitution save to not be paralyzed. 
NOSHIR: You really are the Dawnfather's son. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Concentration is gone from both of you. 
LAURA: So that's 11 now. Still? 
ABUBAKAR: Wait. No, is it gone from you though? Because you just rolled a 37. 
NICK: I'm not even concentrating on anything. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, okay. Cool. 
BRENNAN: Okay. So you succeed. What was your constitution save? 
LAURA: 22. 
BRENNAN: You succeed. 
LAURA: Ah! 
ASHLEY: Oh. Okay. 
BRENNAN: Zaharzht, on a natural four, is going to be-- This scream from the silver dragon as she flies down, (beastly screams) hits a line across, not hitting the solar, not hitting Acastriel. Zaharzht is paralyzed. "(grunts)" You see his muscles freeze up around him. That is going to be SILAHA, who is stunned. 
ABUBAKAR: This is-- 
ASHLEY: Oh no. 
ABUBAKAR: All you can hear in your thoughts is: We choose this time to be mortals. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. Okay. So unfortunately, SILAHA, yes, you are stunned. Tishar is going to run up. 
NOSHIR: Yeah, Tishar. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
NOSHIR: I've never been so happy to have Betrayer Gods. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. 
NOSHIR: Do what you do, Tishar. 
LAURA: Be better. (laughs) 
NOSHIR: Wreck shit! 
LAURA: Nice. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Yeah, she is going to rush up as fast as she can. Okay. 
NICK: We're going to do this. I believe in us. Blinding is really bad for you though. 
LAURA: Blinding is, it's just attack rolls that I make are at disadvantage, but really I can still cast. I can still cast. 
NICK: But how many of your things are line of sight casts? 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
LAURA: I don't know. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
LAURA: We'll find out. 
NICK: Would you like to not be blind? 
BRENNAN: So all of you watch-- 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: -- as Tishar surges forward, plants a foot on the solar's head to leap over him, land on the back of the brass dragon, and say, "You will bring me to the top," and stabs it for 36 points of damage. 
NOSHIR: Oh my god. (laughs) 
BRENNAN: (laughs) And that's her turn. ♪ Bah, bah, bah ♪ Okay. After Tishar, oh boy. Okay. We are going to move to Trist. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
NICK: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Wait, you didn't end up going? 
ABUBAKAR: No, because I'm-- 
ASHLEY: Did you go? 
LAURA: He's stunned. 
ASHLEY: Because you're stunned. Okay, okay, okay. 
BRENNAN: We are going to move to Trist. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Hold on one moment. Okay. 
NICK: You've used your d4, right? 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
NICK: You haven't used yours and you haven't used yours. 
ASHLEY: Tishar is after you. 
ABUBAKAR: No, not yet. 
TALIESIN: Haven't needed it yet. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
TALIESIN: I assume it's going to be a save. 
NICK: Yeah. 
LAURA: Oh yeah, Tishar's after-- 
NICK: I think saving them for saving throws is going to be our best bet. 
TALIESIN: I mean-- 
LAURA: So Zaharzht before me. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Trist. Bank of Scrolls. The matron's figure disappears. You feel something in your pocket. (energy thrumming) "Mom?" 
LAURA: (gasps) How dare you right now? 
NICK: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: You see that the sending stone in your pocket begins to sound. "Mom? Mom?" 
ASHLEY: I reach my hand in my pocket as I'm going through the scrolls. "Hi, baby." 
BRENNAN: You see he says, "I'm here with Haylie and Dad, and it's getting kind of scary. I don't know how much longer you're going to be. Do you think it's possible to send ships back here to Hawks Hill? People are starting to freak out because there's a place called, I think, Tallgrove, or Highgrove, or something like that. People were supposed to come back and they're not coming back. There's sounds coming from the forest and people are starting to run, and I think some tents are on fire." 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
NICK: (sighs) 
ASHLEY: (sighs) Where's your dad? 
BRENNAN: "He's right here." (Amaris) "Hi, darling, I'm here. There's a man named Purvan here." 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
BRENNAN: You hear in the back, (Purvan) "It's normal where I come from." (laughter) 
BRENNAN: You see he says, (Amaris) "I'm not sure, he says that he's looking out for us, but we don't know what's happening." 
ASHLEY: Listen, listen, listen. Go with him. Go with him. Take the family and go with him, please. 
BRENNAN: "Okay. Okay, okay. We will. I'll do what I can." You hear a voice call out and say, "Where is your daughter?" Topher says, "She left, she thinks she can help." Amaris goes, "What? What do you mean she left?" (Topher) "She's going to the edge of the encampment. Dad, let us help. You know that there's something we can do." 
ASHLEY: No. 
BRENNAN: You hear a humming of a young boy with a light inside him. And you-- 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: You see that Amaris says, "Darling, I don't, I don't know what's happening, but I think I'm scared, all right? I think I'm scared." You begin to hear the noise of chaos. You hear galloping hooves and you hear the voice of Ridge go, "Barahai is dead. They're at the edge of the encampment. They're there right now." 
ASHLEY: (sighs) Okay. 
BRENNAN: Arcadia turns to look at you and says, "What is happening?" 
ASHLEY: I don't know. Ridge? 
BRENNAN: "Hey. Trist, it's me. Things are bad here. I think there might be a path out, but there's people screaming from that exit." 
ASHLEY: Can you please go find Haylie? 
BRENNAN: "I can try, Trist, I can try." He says, "Here, Amaris." You see Amaris goes, "All right. I'm going to stay on the-- I don't want to disturb you, but can I stay on the sending stone with you?" 
ASHLEY: Yes, please. Listen, listen. (sighs) I can't come back home. I'm not going to be coming back home. I'm very sorry. I just need you to get to safety, okay? 
BRENNAN: Amaris, "I'll do everything I--" (whipping) (flames surge) Screams. "Oh god. Okay. I'm going to do everything I can. I'm going to do everything I can. I-I--" and the sending stone goes silent. 
ASHLEY: No! 
BRENNAN: Arcadia looks at you, "What are we doing here? What are you doing here?" 
ASHLEY: I don't know. I don't know, this feels so wrong. 
BRENNAN: "I can work a miracle in this room. No one looks to me for comfort or light or anything other than maybe things that no one should've known in the first place. If there's a miracle you can work, you owe it to yourself and our family to go do it." 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
BRENNAN: "I love you." 
ASHLEY: I love you. I put my forehead to hers. I will find a way. 
BRENNAN: Umleta is rocking back and forth, says, "No checkers, I guess." 
ASHLEY: I go over to Umleta. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: I force her into a hug. 
BRENNAN: "No! (squirms)" 
LAURA: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: "I hate it." 
ASHLEY: I know you do. But thank you for being here. 
BRENNAN: "One day, I'm going to spin you up in my web and never let you go." 
ASHLEY: I'll be okay with that. Okay. Let's fucking go. 
BRENNAN: You rush from here. You have the Talisman of Passage in your hand. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
BRENNAN: You see those glitching teleportation platforms in the distance. You can run to them. You see them opening, you have this passage in your hand. The magic is still there, the power is still there. But there are many places to work miracles. Where in your mind's eye do you envision going? 
ASHLEY: Ugh. (sighs) Oh boy. I'm going to go to the Malleus. I'm going to go be with the family. 
BRENNAN: Okay. You begin to rush towards your family as fast as you can. I think with double movement, you are able to close and arrive at the catwalk. You can hear the noise of pitched combat within. You rush as fast as you can to go make sure that your family's going to be okay. You will begin your next turn basically entering from here as you use your turn to arrive-- 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
BRENNAN: -- and get to combat with your family. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
ABUBAKAR: You're in. 
ASHLEY: (buzzes lips) 
BRENNAN: As this unfolds, here we go. 
ASHLEY: Ugh. (sighs) 
BRENNAN: You rush as fast as you can. Okay. (sighs) As this platform continues to turn-- Let's give it a little spin and see where we're at. As it continues to shift and turn, we see several of the archmages begin to surge forward. This one is not going to cast Time Stop, and is instead going to take a shot. SILAHA, how many hit points do you have? 
LAURA: Oh god. 
TALIESIN: Oh, we're doing this, are we? 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 128. 
BRENNAN: A Power Word Kill has no effect. 
LAURA: Yes! Holy shit. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
ABUBAKAR: Wow. 
TALIESIN: Burn that shit. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, I mean-- 
LAURA: That's a big one. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, they don't know how many hit points you got, you look hurt. The other one over here is going to-- ♪ Tah, tah, tah ♪ Give a shot with another one. You see a bunch of Mirror Images go up on the rest of them as they do so. I'm going to need a charisma saving throw from The Emissary. 
NICK: Remember you get plus one. 
TALIESIN: Wow, they have a target, don't they? 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: It's all right, it's almost over. 
NOSHIR: So to speak. 
LAURA: Which one was damaged? 
NICK: Nice. 
NOSHIR: 19 plus six. 
LAURA: On the top wards? 
NOSHIR: So 25. 
ABUBAKAR: Plus five as well, right? 
NOSHIR: That's with my plus five. 
NICK: He's not within 10 of me. 
NOSHIR: Oh yeah. 
BRENNAN: The ward that you hurt, the lower ward you hurt is this one. 
LAURA: That one. 
BRENNAN: This is the upper one that you hurt. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Cool? Okay, what'd you get? 
NOSHIR: 25. 
BRENNAN: You successfully avoid a Banishment. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: Trying to just-- 
ASHLEY: Woo! 
BRENNAN: -- send you to the Divine Realm, one shot. This one's going to rush over here. This one's going to do his best, he's just going to go try to protect this last ward as a guy. This last one over here, I think, is going to say, "Fuck these demons," and is going to fly directly in front of you. Is going to, knowing that the silver dragon is immune to cold, is going to hit a cone of cold. Everybody here, constitution saving throw. 
LAURA: Everybody. Is that us? 
BRENNAN: Oh yeah. That is-- 
NICK: That's us as well? 
BRENNAN: Yes. That is Emhira, SILAHA, The Emissary-- 
NICK: Is this a spell? 
BRENNAN: This is a spell. 
ASHLEY: Oh boy. 
NICK: You will get plus five to this. 
LAURA: Okay. 
NICK: 29. 
TALIESIN: Rerolling. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh shit, okay. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: 22. 
TALIESIN: Better. 
TALIESIN: It's a constitution? 
BRENNAN: Constitution, and I can let you guys know, the DC is 17. If you get a 17, you succeed. 
TALIESIN: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh. 
BRENNAN: So that's going to be, everybody in that cone, if you made the save, sorry, if you didn't make the save, if you did not get a 17 constitution, that is going to be 45 points of cold damage. If you did make the save, it's 22 points of cold damage. 
NICK: Because you are within 10 feet of me, we both have resistance to damage from spells. So we will each take 11. 
LAURA: Amazing. 
NICK: As will Zaharzht. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
LAURA: ♪ I'm going to stand ♪ ♪ Next to you forever ♪ 
NICK: He has plus five to his saves-- 
NOSHIR and BRENNAN: (laugh) 
NICK: -- and resistance to damage from spells. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: So that's 11 damage. 
BRENNAN: So he only takes how much, Nick? 
NICK: Well, depending on, I don't know if he saved or not. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
NICK: But if he saved, 22 goes to 11. 
BRENNAN: Gotcha, cool. 
NICK: So that would be-- 
BRENNAN: Great. Everyone here knows how much damage they took? 
ABUBAKAR: Yep. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
NICK: Oh, you took damage? 
NOSHIR: Well, because everyone, even with the save-- 
NICK: Right. How much damage did you take? 
NOSHIR: 22. 
NICK: So then you take 11 and I take another 11. 
ABUBAKAR: My god. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, unbelievable. Okay. 
NICK: I hope they don't target me with a Power Word Kill. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
NICK: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Don't say that out loud. 
LAURA: You're still okay, you're still okay. 
NICK: Hovering on the edge. 
NICK and LAURA: (laugh) 
LAURA: Heal thyself. 
NICK: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: You guys see up at the top, Adamar, the leader of the Cogence, looks down, and looks at Selena looking at-- He says, "Your creation." You see that Selena goes, "I think some part of me always knew. I don't want to destroy something this beautiful." He goes, "I'll kill you at the end of this." He raises a hand, points right at you SILAHA and is going to cast Wish. (gasping) 
ABUBAKAR: (shouts) What? 
BRENNAN: (shouts) It's Aeor, baby. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: (claps) How many times do I have to say it? It's fucking Aeor out here. 
TALIESIN: What the fuck is about to happen? 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
LAURA: What? 
BRENNAN: I'm going to need a constitution saving throw. 
LAURA: You can do it. 
TALIESIN: I believe in you. 
NICK: Use your d4. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to use my d4 with this if it's shit. Oh yeah, I'm going to use my d4. 
TALIESIN: Eurgh! 
LAURA: Was it bad? It was so bad? 
TALIESIN: Eurgh! 
ABUBAKAR: Aw. Okay. 
NICK: I guess you're all out of luck. 
ABUBAKAR: 16. 
LAURA: No! More luckies. 
BRENNAN: 16? 
ABUBAKAR: Mm. 
NICK: 16 versus a Wish doesn't feel great. 
LAURA: Oh wait! Oh, no, I can't do that, that's nothing. 
ABUBAKAR: Wait, no, no, I can't, no, I've got to save it. 
TALIESIN: Well-- 
LAURA: There's nothing to save. 
LAURA: I mean-- 
TALIESIN: -- there may not be anything to save. 
ABUBAKAR: Well, this is it. I mean, yeah, because I've got one more luck left. Can I use it here? 
LAURA: Yeah, use that shit. 
TALIESIN: I would use it right now. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay, using it. 
TALIESIN: Use it the fuck right now. 
ABUBAKAR: All right, okay, that's better, that's better. That's 22. 
LAURA: With the four, with the d4 added? 
ABUBAKAR: I can't reroll the d4, so yes, 22. 
BRENNAN: 22. Okay, on a DC... 21. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
NOSHIR: Oh. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
LAURA: You just made it? 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
NICK: So what did you roll on the d4? 
ASHLEY and ABUBAKAR: One. 
BRENNAN: One. (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: Lucky. (laughs) On a DC 21, you succeed halving 120 points of force damage to 60. halving 120 points of force damage to 60. 
ABUBAKAR: Aw. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, think about that, think about that. 
BRENNAN: You watch an archmage of Aeor, one of the minds behind the Factorum Malleus, reach into his own understanding and attempt to create a version of this machine to kill you out of the components of your own body. 
NICK: What the? 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: He goes, "Reality is no longer yours." (whooshes) How many hit points are you at right now? 
ABUBAKAR: 46. 
BRENNAN: 46. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: So another 60. By the way, Wish models other spells. He was modeling Finger of Death, which would have killed you, no death saves, and brought you back under his control as a wraith or zombie at the beginning of his next turn. 
ABUBAKAR: Aw, man. 
NICK: Damn. 
BRENNAN: Damn. (laughs) 
TALIESIN and NICK: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I have a stick. 
NICK: Have you taken damage? 
TALIESIN: Only temporary hit points, I'm fine. 
LAURA: Oh my god. Oh my god. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god! 
BRENNAN: Ayden, that is your turn. 
NICK: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: Man, help us. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
TALIESIN: We got to get these wards fucking down. 
NICK: It feels like healing is probably the better use of my time than not making you blind. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah, heal. 
NICK: So you've been damaged, I've been damaged, you've been damaged, you've been damaged, Zaharzht has been damaged. Am I saying? Zaharzht? 
BRENNAN: Zaharzht, yes. 
NICK: Zaharzht has been damaged. One, two, three, four, Zaharzht. Who else has been damaged among the deities here? 
ABUBAKAR and TALIESIN: That's it. 
NICK: That's it. 
LAURA: But you can give-- 
NICK: No, no, but maybe-- 
BRENNAN: Yeah, let's do a hit point check to go around. What are we at? 
TALIESIN: 188. 
ABUBAKAR: 46. 
BRENNAN: Emissary. 
NOSHIR: 194. 
NICK: 104. 
LAURA: 168. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: So, okay. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm at max. 
NICK: Yeah, so-- 
TALIESIN: I actually have three temp right now. 
NICK: So... as a bonus action, I am going to cast Sanctuary on myself. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Hmm. 
NICK: As, let's see. Maybe we'll go 6th-level here. How many 6th-level spells do I have? Just the one, baby. Okay. So has any of the, so it's just, the only betrayer deity that's been injured is Zaharzht? 
BRENNAN: Yes, Zaharzht is the only betrayer who's been injured. 
NICK: Okay. One, two, three, four, Zaharzht. That's a bummer that I can't do all six. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
NICK: I don't love that. 
ABUBAKAR: Also, just keep in mind, I've also got Clockwork Cavalcade. 
NICK: Yeah, but I think us having some more hit points is going to be helpful. 
ABUBAKAR: But how-- 
LAURA: But you're stunned and you can't do anything. 
NICK: How many? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, true. That's true. 
NICK: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Yup. 
NICK: So everyone has taken more than, okay. Yeah, fuck it. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, I want you to bear in mind too where we're at is one of the upper wards has been damaged for 32 points. One of the lower ones has been damaged for 27 that we know is-- 
TALIESIN: Goes at 35. 
BRENNAN: -- goes at 35 at least, yeah. 
NICK: So I will cast Sanctuary on myself. 
BRENNAN: Okay, cool. 
TALIESIN: I need to get that fucking robot-- 
NICK: Then I will cast a 6th-level, yeah. I will cast a 6th-level Mass Cure Wounds. 
BRENNAN: Okay, incredible. How much does that heal to everybody? 
NICK: So that will heal 4d8 plus five to everyone, and we're all in a 30 foot-- 
BRENNAN: Yeah, you got everybody here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
NICK: Not great. 15, 20 hit points to everyone. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Okay, cool. 
NICK: So that's to five people. 
BRENNAN: Great. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
NICK: So it's a hundred hit points total. That's not bad. 20. Oh, sorry. I have Remarkable Recovery or whatever it's called, so I heal for 25. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
NICK: So cast Sanctuary. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
NICK: Cast Mass Cure Wounds. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
NICK: For anyone who cares, I'm a Spelldriver and therefore can cast multiple spells as long as only one of them is above 3rd-level. 
BRENNAN: Gotcha, okay, cool. 
NICK: Solar has not used his reaction, has he? 
BRENNAN: Not used his reaction? No. 
NICK: So I don't think I want to move then. Yeah, I'll heal. I'll heal us for a combined 105. 
NICK: Thanks for that. 
BRENNAN: Incredible. Is that your turn? 
NICK: That is my turn. 
BRENNAN: 17 damage to Emhira from a tail attack from that silver dragon. It goes (cracking whooshes) whips around. That, after Ayden. 
NICK: Oh! That's okay. 
BRENNAN: We are going to go Selena up at the top. Selena up at the top is going to-- 
NICK: Get us above that. 
LAURA: The Power Word Kill. 
NICK: The Power Word Kill threshold. 
BRENNAN: Selena is going to reach down, point at SILAHA. I'm going to need a charisma saving throw. 
ABUBAKAR: Goddamn it. 
TALIESIN: Did you heal yet, by the way? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, I did. Up 20. 
LAURA: She's really angry at you for-- 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. That's nine, right? 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
ABUBAKAR: So that's 20. 
NOSHIR: Taking it personally. 
BRENNAN: 20? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Anything you're adding to that? 
ABUBAKAR: So it's plus-- 
BRENNAN: Oh-- Yeah. 
LAURA: Are we back at the top? No. 
ABUBAKAR: So yeah. Plus 11. So yeah, it's 20. 
BRENNAN: (airy whoosh) Selena reaches out and says, "I think I always knew," (sucking whoosh) and teleports you to the dais in front of her, and you are-- 
TALIESIN: Oh no. 
BRENNAN: -- grappled. 
TALIESIN: Oh no. 
BRENNAN: I think, you don't know that she knows this, but all of you guys know what is currently living inside of-- 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, fuck a duck. 
LAURA: You didn't destroy that shit! 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Shit. 
TALIESIN: Shit. Fuck. 
BRENNAN: Here we go. 
ASHLEY: Wait, did Milo go? 
NICK: Milo hasn't gone. 
BRENNAN: Milo has not gone yet. Okay. 
LAURA: How long does stun-- 
NICK: Does that just say fucked? 
BRENNAN: It does just say fucked. 
LAURA: How long? One round is stunned? 
TALIESIN: Stun ends-- (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Stun ends at the end of the-- 
BRENNAN: This-- 
TALIESIN: -- the stunner's ends next turn. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: This guy over here on this ward summons his demon, and-- 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: To stand over him on that last ward. 
LAURA: Where did he even come from? 
BRENNAN: He was invisible. 
LAURA: Where did you come from, you little shit? 
BRENNAN: I promise these are the last two things happening. 
ABUBAKAR: Of this round? 
BRENNAN: Of this round. 
ABUBAKAR: Then we're doing it again? 
BRENNAN: (gleefully) Then we're going to do it again! Father Milo Cowst comes out. 
LAURA: Come on, Milo. 
BRENNAN: Comes out to join you. 
LAURA: I've never been so happy to see you, Father. 
BRENNAN: He turns and says, (huffs) "All is well." 
LAURA: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: "The Dawnfather's light is all around us." (laughter) (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Finally-- 
NICK: Ayden has got a solar in front of him and fucking Father Milo behind him, and he has never been more unhappy in his-- (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Finally, to close off our round, the tiny little voice near these archmages up at the top goes, "The fight for the future of Exandria happens here. Now, fire the weapon at any cost." Leaps up into the air. 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
NICK: Is that a prizzy? 
ABUBAKAR: What? 
NICK: Is that a prismatic dragon? 
LAURA: He's so pretty! 
BRENNAN: This is Ataro. This is Ataro, undead dragon, who is going to swoop down here, and it's going to go for the biggest clump. (quick whoosh) So three dragons, three demons, two massive constructs, and, like, a half dozen archmages. Okay. 
TALIESIN: Fuck. 
BRENNAN: This is a fight worthy of the gods. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
TALIESIN: Fuck. 
BRENNAN: This is a fight worthy of the gods. 
NICK: This is a problem. 
LAURA: Get out of this spot. 
ABUBAKAR: I see no hope. (laughs) I'm like-- 
LAURA: You just got to get the wards down. 
BRENNAN: Dex savings-- 
NICK: We got to get these wards down. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Dex saving throws from everybody here. 
LAURA: Is this a direct, a spell or attack from-- 
BRENNAN: From a weapon. 
NICK: Everyone who's within 10 feet of me. 
LAURA: From an undead creature. 
BRENNAN: It is from an undead creature. 
LAURA: So he, no, but it's a, it's just a saving throw, wait. "That creature must make--" 
NICK: This is just a breath weapon, right? 
BRENNAN: Breath weapon. This one, I will also need wisdom saves from everybody. 
LAURA: You have to make a wisdom saving throw against me. 
BRENNAN: Whoa. Okay, what happens if the wisdom saving throw fails? 
LAURA: You have to do a new target or waste that attack or spell. 
BRENNAN: Sick as hell. Okay. 
NICK: What will that do? We'll do that first. 
NOSHIR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Ataro looks at you. Recognizes you. Leans down. (snorts) "Yeah." And is going to burn through a legendary resistance to bypass that effect. 
LAURA: Okay. 
NICK: So sorry, we're making a dexterity saving throw and a wisdom? 
BRENNAN: Dexterity and wisdom, yes. 
NICK: This is not a magical effect? 
BRENNAN: Yes, and I can just tell you. Give me the wisdom saving throw first. If you don't clear a 19, you are frightened. 
NICK: Cleared. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, clear. 
ABUBAKAR: Do I have to do it as well? 
NICK: No, I think it's just-- 
TALIESIN: No, we're down. 
LAURA: Then dex save-- 
TALIESIN: We're far away from this, thank god. 
LAURA: Is the other one? Do I still get a plus five? 
NICK: Yeah. It's just the two of us, I think, and the betrayers are all getting plus fives to their rolls. 
BRENNAN: Correct. Yes, yes, yes. 
TALIESIN: Wonder if those robots have wisdom. 
ABUBAKAR: No, I don't think they would. 
ASHLEY: Eurgh. 
NICK: What was the other one? 
BRENNAN: So you are up, and by the way, the wisdom is everybody. The wisdom is everybody, yup. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my god. 
NOSHIR: Oh, okay. Never mind that. 
TALIESIN: Oh, all of us are wisdom saving throw. 
BRENNAN: All of you are wisdom saving throws. That's everybody up in the spot. 
NICK: Adding my d4 for this round to this roll. 
NOSHIR: Nice. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. Okay. Did anyone not get a 19 on their wisdom saving throw? 
ABUBAKAR: 15. 
BRENNAN: 15. 
NOSHIR: Yeah, I did not. 
BRENNAN: Frightened. Frightened. 
LAURA: d4. 
ABUBAKAR: What is that even? I'm fucked, so it's just-- 
BRENNAN: I know. I just have one on you that just says "fucked." 
ABUBAKAR: Just like-- 
BRENNAN: 100%. 
TALIESIN: 28. I'm hard to frighten, though. 
BRENNAN: This is where Aeor maybe saves the day. Maybe we have to rewrite all the Critical Role source books. (giggles) Okay. So anyone that got a 19 on their wisdom is fine. For everybody else, for just you four, Ayden, Emhira, Zaharzht, and Father Milo. DC 21 dexterity. 
LAURA: 22! 
BRENNAN: 22. 
NICK: 25. 
BRENNAN: You each take 63 halved to 31 necrotic damage. 
LAURA: I'm immune to necrotic. 
NICK: Oh, and this is an area of effect spell, right? 
LAURA: You said 31? 
BRENNAN and NICK: 31. 63 or 31. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ABUBAKAR: You know what this is? This is reminding me of, again, you know that D&D that I played with my friends where it's really harsh and really horrible? This is exactly what's happening right now. This is exactly it! (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Yes. Oh, for sure. 
ABUBAKAR: I just can't escape it. 
BRENNAN: Here's my one thing I'm think-- In my head, I was like, cool. Fair fights. I get it. But also, you're the gods and it's Aeor, and baby, nothing in this life for free, baby. 
ABUBAKAR: I get it, man. 
BRENNAN: Ain't nothing in this life for free. 
LAURA: Well, I'm still blinded. I can't do my far attacks. Disadvantage on my far. 
BRENNAN: Okay. That is the end of Ataro's turn, and that is now going to be, we go to the Emissary unfortunately still stunned. 
NICK: This is a new round. 
BRENNAN: This is a new round. 
NICK: So everyone gets their d4 for the turn back. 
TALIESIN: ♪ Da da da da ♪ 
ABUBAKAR: So you're stunned for one whole round. 
NOSHIR: I guess so. 
TALIESIN: Yup. 
ABUBAKAR: Geez. 
LAURA: Yeah, until the end of that person's turn that stunned you. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Shifting back around. 
TALIESIN: This guy didn't do-- 
NICK: Oh, we-- 
ABUBAKAR: No. 
NICK: That's a bummer. 
ABUBAKAR: Wait, is-- Okay, yeah. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. As the platform continues to shift and move. 
TALIESIN: ♪ Da da da doo doo doo doo doo ♪ 
BRENNAN: We're going to stop it as it scoots over. Whoo, fun. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, just knocked out the-- 
BRENNAN: Oh, did someone get knocked down? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I see what happened, okay. 
NICK: No, he's dead, he's dead. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, he's fully dead. Fully dead. Done. Okay, cool. So this Irrevocable, passing by the stunned Emissary is going to take two slam attacks on you. You have a beefy AC, not-- 
NICK: AC's 23, right? 
BRENNAN: 23 right now. Really? You don't say? 
NICK: Because I upped it by one. 
BRENNAN: Oh, these guys have an ability called Automatic Hit. 
TALIESIN: What? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
NICK: Boo! 
BRENNAN: Boo to that. 
LAURA: Who has that? 
BRENNAN: Oh shit! Okay. But you are really in luck, because the Irrevocable doesn't have control. It pushes you five feet back out of reach for its second attack, but deals 60 force damage to you. 
NOSHIR: Oh man. 
BRENNAN: (booms) 
NICK: You're going to have to get out of range of 60 feet of me soon. (laughter) 
NICK: You only take 30. 
NOSHIR: Dude, I am so sorry. 
BRENNAN: However, however, the stunned condition ends on the Emissary and on-- 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, thank Jesus. 
BRENNAN: Yes. It ends on you both. So you are no longer stunned, but you are grappled up on top. 
ABUBAKAR: How does frightened work? 
TALIESIN: You can't move towards that dragon. 
NICK: Oh, that's it? 
TALIESIN: Pretty much is it. Yeah, you just can't move any closer to it. 
LAURA: You can't attack it directly either. 
TALIESIN: And direct attacks are at disadvantage or something, if I recall. 
NICK: I can look it up. 
BRENNAN: Emissary's at 23 right now? 
NICK: AC 23. 
TALIESIN: No, you can't move. That's all the grapple means. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, so you can't move, but you can do reactions. 
NICK: Do I want to, ah, ah-- 
TALIESIN: Everything else is, I'm triple checking. 
LAURA: So many things over here. 
NICK: No, I can't. 
TALIESIN: My brain is turning into mush. 
BRENNAN: Here we go. 
TALIESIN: Conditions. 
LAURA: We got to get out of this kill zone. 
BRENNAN: Yes, you guys are bottled. You take 16 damage from the glabrezu here and another seven after that, and it gets you in a claw and grapples you. 
NICK: I will, fuck. So 16. You take eight, I take eight. 
NOSHIR: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, and you also have-- 
NICK: Then seven. 
TALIESIN: -- attack rolls when you can see. 
NICK: You round up every time, huh? 
BRENNAN: I've been rounding down. 
NICK: You've been rounding down? 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
NICK: I've been rounding up. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
NICK: I'm going to round down on this one then. We each take three. 
NOSHIR: You got it. 
NICK: Actually, sorry, don't take that other three. I'm going to take the whole six. 
NOSHIR: What? 
NICK: Because-- 
NOSHIR: Why? 
NICK: Because I'm going to teleport next to you. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. Ayden, you appear (whooshes) next to him. You're taking one of the attacks? 
NICK: I'm taking that seven. 
BRENNAN: Okay, you take the seven. Bam, fist comes down on you. You are-- 
NICK: This is an interesting interaction because it is when he takes damage, I am Sanctuaried, so I can't be targeted, but I am taking the damage for him. 
BRENNAN: Totally makes sense. Got it. Hell yes. Okay. Cha cha cha. Other demon flying up is going to take swings as well on the Emissary, sensing that this thing is being protected. 
LAURA: Jesus. 
TALIESIN: Five. 
BRENNAN: 30 damage to The Emissary. 
LAURA: What? 
ASHLEY: Should I have just gone in there? 
BRENNAN: From this nalfeshnee. 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
TALIESIN: God, I want that robot off that fucking-- 
NICK: This is fucking me up real bad. 
BRENNAN: How are the Dawnfather and the-- 
LAURA: They might fight it out. 
NICK: The Dawnfather? That was, hold on. I just took, I did all seven from you, the 16 just now, and then that was what? 
BRENNAN: Another 30. 
LAURA: He said it was nice. You remember when we first started? 
NICK: 16 and 15. 
LAURA: You're like, "This is fun." 
NICK: So 31. 38 more. (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: I can't wait to go home tomorrow. (laughs) 
NICK: I have healed 105 hit points, negated 22 points from resistance, redirected 198 points of damage to myself. 
TALIESIN: One round. 
NICK: I'm currently very fucked up. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool. 
BRENNAN: Incredible. So we are coming very close to Emhira's turn, but there's one last thing in front of us, and I think this could be a moment where the future of Aeor is written very differently, so let's see what happens. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
ABUBAKAR: Ugh! 
BRENNAN: I love playing with you guys. 
ASHLEY: Ugh! 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Cool. So our brass dragon must roll to see if it regenerates its breath weapon. On a five or six, it does. 
NICK: Don't use that die. 
BRENNAN: Why not? 
NICK: That die was mine and you somehow have ended up with it. 
BRENNAN: Well, you left it at the apartment, man. I don't know what to tell you. 
NICK: If my own die destroys Exandria. 
ASHLEY: Maybe it'll help us. Maybe it'll help us. 
TALIESIN: Stop hitting yourself. Stop hitting yourself. 
LAURA: That creature will get to go before I go. 
BRENNAN: Yes. Well, and it has physical attacks it can use, but its breath weapon is, of course, much, much worse. 
NICK: What does it need? ALL: Five or six. 
BRENNAN: Five or six. I'm going to roll in front of the board. 
NICK: Oh, you traitor! 
ASHLEY: Oh no! 
BRENNAN: That is a six! 
NICK: Does anyone else have Luck? 
ABUBAKAR: No. 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
ABUBAKAR: I'm out of luck. 
TALIESIN: Clearly. 
NICK: You do? 
TALIESIN: Actually, you're-- 
ABUBAKAR: Why don't you use? 
LAURA: Use it. 
NICK: Wait, you could use it. 
NOSHIR: I, yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: How much Luck have you got? 
NOSHIR: Two. 
NICK: Well, technically-- 
ABUBAKAR: Use it! 
NICK: Technically, this is-- 
LAURA: Yeah, you've only used one Luck. 
NOSHIR: But I haven't had any-- 
NICK: It's not-- 
NOSHIR: -- saves. 
ASHLEY: Shit. 
TALIESIN: You can make him reroll. 
ABUBAKAR: You could make him reroll. 
NICK: No, not on Luck. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Oh, not on a-- 
ABUBAKAR: On Luck, you can make other people reroll. 
NICK: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: I'm feeling generous. If you want to dig deep into a precious resource like Luck points. 
NICK: Look at the gleam in his eye. 
TALIESIN: Fuck off. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Ugh! 
BRENNAN: How bad you want it? How bad you want it? 
ABUBAKAR: Come on, buddy. 
TALIESIN: I can't. I have no good opinion on this. There's no such thing as a good opinion on this. 
ABUBAKAR: I have a fantastic one. You should do this. 
TALIESIN: Because I know the hits are just going to keep coming. 
NOSHIR: Yeah, but if I can save a mass casualty, I think it might be worth it. Let's do it. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, boy! Yeah, boy! 
LAURA: Come on, come on. 
ABUBAKAR: Watch this. 
BRENNAN: Your call as the person spending a Luck point. Do you want the same die or a different die? 
NOSHIR: Keep it the same. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, keep it the same. 
BRENNAN: All right, Lawbearer, let's do it. 
TALIESIN: That's how it's done. That's how it's done. 
BRENNAN: Looking for a one, a two, a three, or a four. 
ABUBAKAR: We gods on this table, baby. 
BRENNAN: That's a three! (cheering) 
ABUBAKAR: Boom! That's what I'm talking about! 
NICK: Yes! 
ABUBAKAR: That's what I'm talking about! 
NOSHIR: You guys know how Luck works! (cheering) 
ASHLEY: All right, all right, all right! 
ABUBAKAR: We're gods, baby! 
BRENNAN: I'm going to say, in this moment, as you come out of stun, Emissary, you're on a vessel of light, chaos all around. Someone must chart the stars. Someone must bring order. Let us move the lines to become parallel once more and let the scales hang in the balance. We move from time in which this dragon unleashes, even with the demon in its wake, on everybody on that platform. Instead, rolling a three, sinks all of its attacks into Tishar on its back. Roiling, wrestling with Tishar. We're going to roll opposed athletics. It successfully grapples Tishar, moves her, and bites into her torso, (gnashing roar) dealing ♪ Da-da-da ♪ 70 points of damage to Tishar. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
ABUBAKAR: What?! 
LAURA: Okay, if we die from attacks, we are still divine. But if we die from the Factorum, then we're goneskies. 
BRENNAN: Toast. If you die, if you actually are three failed death saves dead, your mortal form dies and you are shunted out with the Stormlord and the Platinum Dragon at the edge of the city. 
LAURA: Got it. Got it. 
BRENNAN: If your mortal form dies, if The Emissary dies, this plan is toast, right? 
NICK: Emissary is looking pretty good, though. 
BRENNAN: What's Emissary at right now? 
ABUBAKAR: Don't say that, man! 
LAURA: Don't say that! 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: Why would you say that? 
LAURA: Knock on that damn wood. 
NICK: Remarkable. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
NICK: I take that back. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
LAURA: Oh. Not good? 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
NOSHIR: I've taken the brunt of all the shit. 
BRENNAN: Emhira. 
NICK: We've taken-- 
LAURA: Huh? That's me. 
NICK: We've taken-- 
LAURA: Where am I? 
NICK: -- almost 400 damage between the two of us. 
NOSHIR: I'm about to get fucked on. 
TALIESIN: Just got to get to these fucking wards. 
LAURA: Can I see anything? 
BRENNAN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: Well, yeah, I see that-- 
TALIESIN: We need to knock some of these fuckers off. 
BRENNAN: At the beginning of his turn, Zaharzht is going to roll. He needs an 11 or higher to break out of the paralysis. 
LAURA: Come on! 
BRENNAN: That's a six. 
LAURA: Nope. 
BRENNAN: Zaharzht-- 
NICK: Zaharzht, dude. 
BRENNAN: You see as he goes, (erratic groans) and appears to be in some sort of weird, ecstatic pain spiral within himself. 
NICK: Classic Zaharzht. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Classic, man. 
ASHLEY: Such a drama queen. 
BRENNAN: And Emhira-- 
LAURA: Yes. 
BRENNAN: With a host of legendary actions coming at the end of your turn-- 
LAURA: I should move. 
NICK: Just don't go. 
LAURA: But I can't. 
NICK: (laughs) Just don't-- 
ABUBAKAR: Just don't go. Just stay. Just stay. 
BRENNAN: You are blinded. But blinded does not mean that you cannot attack. It means you have disadvantage. 
LAURA: Right. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
ABUBAKAR: I have Restore Balance within 60 feet. Is she within 60 feet of me or no? 
BRENNAN: No. Beyond-- 
LAURA: I'm not? Oh, that's really far. 
BRENNAN: You would have to move. Yeah, that's 60 feet right there. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, okay. 
BRENNAN: So it is your turn. Battered, bloodied. You cannot sustain another round like the one you've just had. What are you going to do? 
LAURA: If I move, they can unleash attacks on me, though. 
BRENNAN: Right now, yes, these dragons could get attacks of opportunity on you if you were to move. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: That is correct. But you have range, you have Teleport. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: You see that there are different wards. There's the one badly injured one down below, the badly injured one up top. 
LAURA: Okay. I am blind, but I have a vibe for where it was. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
LAURA: So I'm going to use my bonus action to try to hit the one that I had attacked already with my mote of Crown of Stars. 
BRENNAN: Yes. Okay, you have your mote of Crown of Stars. That's correct. For the Crown of Stars, are you aiming at the-- 
LAURA: The one I'd already-- 
BRENNAN: Damaged? The one up top? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Yes, got you. Okay. Go ahead, give me an attack roll. SILAHA, you are using your reaction to-- Oh, no, that's 60 feet-- 
ABUBAKAR: I can't. It's 60 feet. 
BRENNAN: Okay, disadvantage. Okay, so you're rolling an attack with Crown of Stars at disadvantage? 
LAURA: Yes. 
TALIESIN: With a d4. 
LAURA: With a d4. Okay. 
NICK: Ooh, four. 
LAURA: That's a 17. 
NICK: Definitely better. 
BRENNAN: Your Crown of Stars misses the higher ward. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: You sense that they have a higher armor class than the lower wards. 
LAURA: Ah, fuck me. 
BRENNAN: That's okay. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: Could you do it again? 
LAURA: I can't. I can only do one of the Stars per round. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: But you have your bonus action. 
LAURA: That was my bonus. 
BRENNAN: Oh that's your bonus. Yes. Now you have your action. 
LAURA: So where I am, rage is going to fill me. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
LAURA: Erupting from me is just darkness. It's going to spread out within 60 feet all around me. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. 
LAURA: Nothing can see through it. In that darkness, anything here is going to hear wails of grief, racking sobs, the sound of somebody grieving over the loss of a loved one. It's all of the sounds that I hear every moment of every day as people die. It's going to erupt around me and everybody's going to hear it. Anybody within 60 feet-- 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: -- has to make a wisdom saving throw. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: This is including all of us? 
LAURA: That's including all of us. 
NICK: Sick, sick, sick, sick, sick. 
BRENNAN: Okay, here we go. 
NICK: You get plus five to this. You get, actually, a total of plus six between all the stuff I'm giving you. 
BRENNAN: Wow, okay. 
ASHLEY: Oh boy, oh boy. 
NICK: Sounds like you're going to need it. 
NOSHIR: Yeah. 
NICK: This is wisdom? 
LAURA: Wisdom save. 
ABUBAKAR: What's the DC threshold? 
LAURA: It's a 19. 
NOSHIR: Yeah, I did not make that. 
TALIESIN: Add the d4 or no? No, it's usually if you-- 
NICK: Does this deal damage? 
ASHLEY: Still not going to make it. 
NICK: You might kill both of us. 
LAURA: No, it-- Will I? 
NICK: We'll see. Depends on how much damage it's going to do. Is this a magical effect, though? 
LAURA: I mean, it's a magical darkness. 
NICK: Okay. So yeah, it's magic, it's magic. 
LAURA: It's magic. 
NICK: Hold on. You rolled poorly, didn't you? 
NOSHIR: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. 
LAURA: If it's going to kill you, I'm not going to do it. 
NICK: No, no, no. Do it, do it, do it. 
LAURA: No, no, no, I'm not going to do it. Not going to do it. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah, hell yeah. 
NICK: I think we'll survive. 
LAURA: I don't know, brah. 
BRENNAN: I love that. I absolutely love that. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: I'm not going to lie, I fucking love that. 
NICK: We'll both have resistance to it. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: It's just I might die. You probably won't. 
LAURA: Oh, also on that tail whip from that dragon, he took 25 points of-- 
BRENNAN: Oh, shit. Awesome, yeah. Boom. 
NICK: Do it. Do it. You did it. 
BRENNAN: Let me know the effect. What happens? 
LAURA: Anybody that doesn't save takes eight-- I'm sorry. 
NICK: It's okay. 
ABUBAKAR: Takes eight, what? 
NICK: d-something. 
LAURA: 8d8. 
ABUBAKAR: 8d8?! 
NICK: Yeah, yeah. (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
BRENNAN: What's the range of effect? 
LAURA: 60 feet. 
BRENNAN: Okay. In a radius from you? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Okay. SILAHA, you're good. You're fully good. That's going to be so many people. Okay. But do they take half on a fail or no? 
LAURA: Half on a success. 
BRENNAN: Okay, copy that. Go ahead and roll 8d8 damage. 
NICK: Woo! 
ABUBAKAR: How much HP have you left? 
LAURA: Am I going to kill you? 
NICK: You might, but there's ways around this. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: Wow. 
BRENNAN: Man, even in the face of adversity, the Dawnfather is like, "The sun always rises." (laughter) 
NICK: Hey, baby. 
BRENNAN: Hey baby! 
ABUBAKAR: This is dark, man. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: This is like-- 
ASHLEY: "This is dark, man." 
ABUBAKAR: Oh man! 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. There's too much happening. 
LAURA: 35 points-- 
TALIESIN: I got plans. 
LAURA: -- of psychic damage. 
NICK: 35, okay. 
LAURA: So that's not so bad. 
NICK: A couple things are going to happen here. Let's do us before we do anyone else. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
NICK: I succeeded. 
LAURA: Okay. 
NICK: So I only take 17. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: So many-- 
NICK: But I succeeded and I have resistance to magic. 
LAURA: See, there you go. 
NICK: So 17 becomes... 
ABUBAKAR: Nine, right? You round down. 
NICK: 17 becomes nine. 
ABUBAKAR: If you're rounding up. 
NICK: Well, he's been rounding down. So I'm going to start rounding down. 
NICK: I've been rounding up this whole time. 
ABUBAKAR: So eight then. 
TALIESIN: Eight. 
NICK: So eight. So I take eight points of damage. You failed. 
NOSHIR: I failed my roll. 
NICK: So you're taking how much? 
NOSHIR: 35. 
NICK: 35 halved is 17. 
NOSHIR: Right. 
NICK: So you take 17. I take another eight. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
ABUBAKAR: Why? 
NICK: Because I take half of all his damage. 
BRENNAN: I want you to know, I rolled quite poorly for these saves. You just dealt hundreds of damage-- 
NICK: Hell yeah, see, that was fine. 
BRENNAN: -- because of the amount of enemies that are around. 
LAURA: Amazing. 
NICK: The two of you, I don't know what your hit points are like. 
LAURA: Uh-huh. 
NICK: You using a reaction to take damage for one of us may be the fate of Exandria. 
LAURA: A really good idea. 
TALIESIN: Oh, I was about to say, can I do that right now? 
NICK: I wouldn't do it on this. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
LAURA: I have a question. Do I need-- 
NICK: But it's coming. 
LAURA: Do I need to be able to see in order to do that? 
NICK: You need to be within 30 feet of it. 
LAURA: That's it? 
NICK: Yes. 
LAURA: I can feel when you take damage? 
NICK: Yes. 
LAURA: Okay. 
NICK: We are bonded-- 
LAURA: The reason I did that is so that all these attacks, they're all going to be in darkness. They will be fucked for their-- 
BRENNAN: Disadvantage. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
NICK: Hell yeah. Hell fucking yeah. 
BRENNAN: Incredible. 
LAURA: They can't see. Even if they can see through magical darkness, they can't see. 
NICK: You're within 10 of me feet, aren't you? 
TALIESIN: I can. 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. 
TALIESIN: Do you want me to take this damage? 
NICK: No, no, no. 
TALIESIN: No. 
NICK: But did you add five to your save? 
TALIESIN: I didn't need it. 
NICK: Okay. 
TALIESIN: But I'll also say that I was going to be booking the fuck out of here so that we can start moving around this because I'm-- 
NICK: Agreed. 
ABUBAKAR: You're the fastest mover. 
TALIESIN: I'm the fastest mover. While I can't do the damage necessary for some of this, I can get places. 
ABUBAKAR: You can get there. Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Okay. So what we're going to do now is this. 
NICK: Only 14 damage to me, that's pretty good. 
LAURA: That's not so bad, right? I know you're so powerful. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: (doubtful moan) 
BRENNAN: End of your turn. Dragons attacking into the darkness with disadvantage. An 18 and a two. Silver dragon misses. A 13 and a five. Brass dragon misses. Legendary actions. 
ABUBAKAR: What a great move. 
NICK: Yo, yo, yo. 
ABUBAKAR: What a great move. 
BRENNAN: This is exactly-- 
NICK: It was totally worth it. 
ASHLEY: This is what was needed. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Brass is out of legendaries. Shadow dragon coming for that attack. That is a fucking miss. Okay. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
NICK: Yo! 
ABUBAKAR: Mwah! 
BRENNAN: That is a fucking miss. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
BRENNAN: For a creature that can absolutely see through magical darkness, but can't see through this magical darkness. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. 
LAURA: That's because I'm your mommy! 
BRENNAN and NOSHIR: (laugh) 
BRENNAN: "Mommy. Mommy, this sucks, Mommy." 
NICK: "Where's my Popsicle?" 
BRENNAN: Okay. That's a lot of legendaries. At the end of your turn, however, Acastriel is going to go. 
NICK: I used my reaction this turn already. 
LAURA: Do I roll to break the blindness at the end of my turn or at the end of the other person's turn? 
BRENNAN: Oh, let me see. 
NICK: Right? Because I wasn't standing next to you at the beginning of this turn. 
BRENNAN: It's Lesser Restoration or bust. You're blinded-- 
LAURA: I'm fucked. 
BRENNAN: You're fucked until someone-- 
NICK: If you get close to me, I can-- 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
NICK: I can unblind. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Acastriel is-- 
NICK: We need to destroy more of these things. 
TALIESIN and ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yes, we do. 
NICK: Fuck healing-- 
LAURA: I'm trying. We got to do ranged. 
TALIESIN: I would really like one of these robots to get the fuck off one of these plates and, yeah, well, I'm going to do my best. 
NICK: We're going to do that this turn. 
BRENNAN: Ayden, your armor class, 23, right? 
NICK: Is someone targeting me? 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
NICK: What are they targeting me with? 
BRENNAN: A attack. 
NICK: Okay. An attack? 
BRENNAN: A weapon attack. 
NICK: Well, I'm under sanctuary, so they need to make a DC 19 check to target me. so they need to make a DC 19 check to target me. 
BRENNAN: They will succeed on a wisdom check with a DC 19 on a five or higher. 
NICK: Cool. 
LAURA: Five or higher? 
BRENNAN: 12. 
NICK: Cool. 
ASHLEY: Oof. 
BRENNAN: You are hit. 
NICK: Is this a spell? 
BRENNAN: No, it's an attack. 
NICK: This is an attack, okay. 
TALIESIN: How are you doing? 
NICK: Well, we'll find out. 
TALIESIN: I was going to say, because are you going to cry out for help or no? 
LAURA: I can bamf in-- 
ASHLEY: Let me in there. Let me in there. Let me in there! 
NICK: Someone might have to. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
NICK: Let's see how this goes. 
BRENNAN: You take 15 piercing plus 27 radiant. Are you still up? 
NICK: 15 plus 27? 
LAURA: I bamf in. 
BRENNAN: Is 42. 
NICK: 42? I will need a bamf. 
LAURA: I use my reaction to teleport next to him. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
LAURA: I take it. 
BRENNAN: So you're going to take 42. 
LAURA: Is that what I do? I take the hit for you? 
NICK: You take the hit. 
LAURA: That's, what, piercing? 
BRENNAN: Piercing and radiant. 
LAURA: Okay. 
NICK: Emboldening Bond, yeah. Within five feet of me, you can be there, and-- 
ABUBAKAR: Can we get a HP check quick? 
NICK: -- and you take all the damage instead. 
LAURA: 98. 
ABUBAKAR: 98? 
LAURA: 98. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay, cool. 
BRENNAN: So you have less than 100? 
TALIESIN: 174. 
ABUBAKAR: You're at what? 174. 
LAURA: A little. 
BRENNAN: I'm going to need you to make a constitution saving throw. It is low, but failure is instant death. 
ASHLEY: (gasps) 
NICK: You get plus five. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
LAURA: Because I'm right next to you. 
NICK: Yep. 
BRENNAN: Failure is instant death. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: The DC is quite low because the ability is so potent. It's a DC 15 constitution saving throw. What is your bonus to constitution? 
LAURA: Six. 
ABUBAKAR: So plus five. 
BRENNAN: Now it's plus 11. 
NICK: It's 11. 
BRENNAN: So you'll succeed on a four or higher, but that means on a one, two, or three, Emhira-- 
LAURA: I'm done. 
BRENNAN: -- avatar Matron of Ravens is dead on a one, a two, or a three. 
ABUBAKAR: Come on, you got this. 
NICK: I believe in you. 
LAURA: It's terrifying. 
ABUBAKAR: Come on, you got this. 
TALIESIN: I hate it. 
NICK: Do you want-- Nat 20! 
LAURA: 20! (excited cheering) 
BRENNAN: Let's fucking go! 
ASHLEY: (relieved sigh) 
NOSHIR: Holy shit! 
NICK: Hell yeah. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. There you go. Get the fist bump. Give the fist bump. 
LAURA: Ah, fuck! 
ABUBAKAR: (groans) 
BRENNAN: On a nat 20, you know what? 
ASHLEY: Oh, I'm stressed. 
BRENNAN: Holy shit. Dawnfather, darkness everywhere. You hear, in your heart, Acastriel. "Is this your dominion, Father? Is this your family? I say let there be light." You feel a blow coming to absolutely kill you. Drop you to zero, end of your life. Instead, she who has joined your ranks, she who is Matron of Death, passage from life to that which is beyond, the angelic sword cleaves into you. Due to your bravery, leaping in front of Ayden, the Dawnfather, you (sword whooshing) and feel the angel hovering over you, massive, shrouded in darkness. You save and do not die. As you hear him "(grunts)" come up short, shocked, horrified, can see nothing, shrouded in darkness, the blade twists back out. You are standing. 
NICK: I think in this moment, we are telepathically linked. We are Emboldening Bonded. Despite all of that, I think there has been a question between the Matron and the Dawnfather, which is, are you family? And that question is answered. (sighing) 
BRENNAN: You feel somewhere, distantly, you are not alone. (whooshes) (impacts) Acastriel shocked, horrified, believing that blow to have been about to pierce true. Asha, Wolf Queen, it is your turn. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, come on. 
TALIESIN: I'm fucking sick of this. Which one of these is already broken, is already starting to break? 
BRENNAN: This one is less than 10 hit points away from being gone. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
TALIESIN: Is this where it's currently sitting at its spin? 
BRENNAN: This one, this is currently sitting at its spin right here, yes. 
LAURA: Then this one up here-- 
NICK: We think we can deal with that. So if you with the movement, dealing with something else might be better. 
TALIESIN: So I'm going to-- 
LAURA: But there's another one that doesn't-- 
NICK: One of the other ones is fucked up, too. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, except I don't hit that hard. 
ABUBAKAR: It's a high DC. 
NICK: Mm. 
ABUBAKAR: 25. 
LAURA: So try to hit the one that's right in front of us. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, or I could just break that one. Yeah, okay, so I'm going to take a little leap up there, right in front of this big robot motherfucker. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. 
TALIESIN: Can I reach the fucking sigil from right there, if I hop over? Can I go to town on it or no? 
BRENNAN: He's standing on it. You would have to do something about that Irrevocable that is right there, whether it's that one or the one on the other side. That's blocking your way to get one of these. 
NICK: This one's destroyed, right? 
TALIESIN: That one's gone. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: That one's destroyed, yep. 
ABUBAKAR: Interesting. 
NICK: Should we move it? 
BRENNAN: I will also remind you guys, with Divine Prowess, your skill checks are currently doubled. 
ABUBAKAR: You could technically force this. I mean, I don't know if-- 
NICK: You could grapple him. 
ABUBAKAR: You could technically shove this thing. I mean, I don't know what the actual DC of this. It might be 30 or whatever, but you are a god, and it's doubled. 
TALIESIN: I mean-- 
NOSHIR: What size are they? 
BRENNAN: They're huge. 
NOSHIR: They are huge. 
BRENNAN: They're size huge. 
TALIESIN: All right, I'm going to see what happens out of that. I'm going to make an attempt here. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to try to-- 
BRENNAN: Also, how far is the radius of your darkness? 
ABUBAKAR: 60 feet. 
LAURA: Oh, 60 feet. 
BRENNAN: Okay. So Asha, they won't get attacks of opportunity on you because I could be wrong, but I believe you need sight. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, you need sight. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: You need sight. Cool. 
ABUBAKAR: So yeah. 
BRENNAN: Now, making the jump is going to be-- 
LAURA: Difficult. 
BRENNAN: -- frightening in the darkness, but you won't get attacks of opportunity moving past them. 
TALIESIN: All right. I'll take it. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to take that jump. 
BRENNAN: I am going to need an athletics check with disadvantage because you are making it in the dark to clear to the next platform. 
ABUBAKAR: But again-- 
LAURA: Double the check. 
TALIESIN: I also double-- 
ABUBAKAR: You have Divine Prowess. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. Double the roll. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: So what's the threshold? 
BRENNAN: Threshold is 20. 
LAURA: Woof! 
ABUBAKAR: Jesus. 
TALIESIN: Am I acrobatics check? 
BRENNAN: Acrobatics or athletics does it. 
TALIESIN: I don't even roll to beat that threshold. My bonus is plus 11. 
BRENNAN: Okay, but-- 
TALIESIN: But I'll give that roll just for the nat one. 
BRENNAN: Give me the roll, yeah, just to see a nat one possibility. 
TALIESIN: Nope. That's a 15 and a 19. 
BRENNAN: Hell yes! Asha, you surge out of the darkness. 
TALIESIN: I've got a very long jump there. 
BRENNAN: I'm going to say you clear the Irrevocable, landing here on the platform. 
ASHLEY: Nice! 
BRENNAN: As you go to that Divine Prowess and (graceful leap) every bit of wild nature surging through you, landing on the platform as it spins. Where do you go? What do you do? 
TALIESIN: I'm heading towards that one that's already damaged. I am not only running, I am running on all fours, fucking making my way-- 
LAURA: Ooh! 
TALIESIN: -- across that at 65 fucking feet. 
ASHLEY: Cool, cool, cool! 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. So-- (unbelievable fast running) 
TALIESIN: Yeah! 
NICK: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: Yay! 
BRENNAN: ♪ Can it run ♪ 
NICK: Get wrecked! 
BRENNAN: Get wrecked! Unbelievable. So you make it. Your movement is so extravagant, you make it all the way to this other Irrevocable. What do you do as you arrive there? 
TALIESIN: Well, since I am behind this motherfucker and clearly I can't get to where I need to get to-- 
LAURA: Can you go between his little leggies? 
TALIESIN: Well, I don't know if I can actually manage that, if I can actually get down there and-- Well, that might be too much. I have a plan B for that though. 
LAURA: You are a god! 
TALIESIN: I know. My plan B is, I'm going to actually use my spirit. I'm going to jump up and try and basically stunning strike this thing. 
BRENNAN: Hell yes. 
NOSHIR: Whoa! Okay, here we go. 
TALIESIN: Get that fucking, my briar so deep in his-- 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. So okay, what's incredible about this too specifically is these guys are all anti-magic. So you have come in the guise of something of the natural world, which does not rely on magic or spellcasting. 
LAURA: Oh, that's great. 
BRENNAN: Okay. So go ahead and take your first attack. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
LAURA: I have to pee again. 
ASHLEY: I'm wiggling. 
TALIESIN: That's-- 
ASHLEY: I don't want to leave. 
TALIESIN: -- 27, 31 to hit. 
BRENNAN: 31 absolutely hits. 
TALIESIN: Then that's going to be, that's 1d10 plus eight. So that's, oh, it's not bad. 
NOSHIR: Oh my god. 
TALIESIN: 17 points of damage plus three poison, so 21 points of damage. 
ABUBAKAR: If it's in-- Sorry, I don't want to intervene. 
TALIESIN: Bring it. 
ABUBAKAR: Because it's an Aeormaton, right? 
BRENNAN: These are actually not Aeormatons. These are constructs. 
ABUBAKAR: Then you're sorted. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Then I'm using that also to-- 
ABUBAKAR: They have resistance to poison. 
TALIESIN: I'm dropping a stunning strike into that. 
BRENNAN: Okay. Plus eight to constitution, but not proficient in the saving throw. 11 or higher, they're going to save. 
TALIESIN: Worth it. 
NICK: (groans) 
BRENNAN: 16, that is a save. Save on the first attack, though. 
TALIESIN: Yep, going again. Next attack. 
BRENNAN: Here we go. Here we go. 
TALIESIN: That's a 21 to hit. 
BRENNAN: 21 hits. 
TALIESIN: It's worth it. Yep, okay. I keep forgetting what dice I use for what. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. 
TALIESIN: This one's a little less exciting. 14 points of damage. 
BRENNAN: 14 points of damage. Hell yes. 
BRENNAN: Another stunning strike. 
BRENNAN: Okay. ♪ Da-da-da ♪ 13, save. 
TALIESIN: Shit. (groans) I'm sorry, I'm just looking at what I got. Yeah, no, that won't help. That won't help. Is it looking like what I'm doing to it matters at all? 
BRENNAN: The stunning definitely matters. If it fails that save, it is huge. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, but I can't take stunning on a Flurry of Blows, I don't believe. 
BRENNAN: You can. 
TALIESIN: Oh I can? 
BRENNAN: You can take stunning on every attack. 
TALIESIN: Jesus Christ. Flurry of Blows. Fucking, fucking monk. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
NICK: Hell yeah. 
TALIESIN: All right. Burning these points, but fuck it. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. 
TALIESIN: YOLO. So first one. 
NICK: Are the two of you now within 30 feet of each other? 
TALIESIN: Yes. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, I believe so. 
NICK: That's also huge. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TALIESIN: That's 27 something to hit. 
BRENNAN: 27 to hit. Yes, that hits. Go ahead. 
TALIESIN: That's the wrong die. That would've been sad. All right, no, that's better. That's 14 points of damage. 
BRENNAN: Okay, how many? 
TALIESIN: 14 points. 
BRENNAN: 14 points, yes. Saves on the third one. You've got another one. 
TALIESIN: Yep, here we go. The last one. Jesus Christ. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
TALIESIN: 14 to hit. 
BRENNAN: 14 is not going to do it. 
TALIESIN: Goddamn it. Yeah, I'm out. 
ABUBAKAR: Well, you could roll a d4 though, can't you, because you still got the d4. 
TALIESIN: Is it close enough to-- Is it worth that d4 though? 
BRENNAN: I don't know that you feel like it's close enough to be worth it. 
TALIESIN: That's-- Yeah, I'm trying to think if I should back off this thing or not. No, I'm going to stay right in his junk for now. 
BRENNAN: Cool. Hell yeah. We move from Asha. One. 
TALIESIN: I burned a lot of ki. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
LAURA: Did you break the ward? 
NICK: There's not going to be much after this, I think. 
TALIESIN: Hmm? 
LAURA: Did you break the ward? 
TALIESIN: I can't get to the ward. I got to get rid of him or I got to stun him before I can get to the ward. And I didn't manage to stun him. 
ASHLEY: I have to pee again. 
LAURA: I know! 
ASHLEY: So stressful. 
TALIESIN: He's busy now. Also that means because I'm in attack there's advantage on attacks against him. 
NICK: I know that you're rolling a bunch. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
NICK: Just, before you roll anything targeting me-- 
BRENNAN: Sanctuary? 
NICK: Sanctuary, there's a bunch of stuff. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: (anxious laugh) 
BRENNAN: Successfully saves against Sanctuary. You take-- 
NICK: What kind of attack? 
BRENNAN: Physical attack. 
NICK: Physical attack. 
BRENNAN: You take 17 damage. 
NICK: Okay. 
BRENNAN: From a tail attack from Ataro that managed to hit just lashing out wildly in the darkness. 
NICK: Cool. 
BRENNAN: Acastriel is going to Teleport. 
NICK: Also, just so you know-- Does your magic, does your darkness prevent all light? Because I theoretically am glowing. 
LAURA: Oh. 
BRENNAN: It protects-- 
NICK: Okay. 
BRENNAN: It stops you from glowing, yeah. 
NICK: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Acastriel is going to Teleport out of the darkness back to the top. That is going to be-- That gets us all the way back. SILAHA, that is your turn. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
NICK: You have Mage Slayer, don't you? 
BRENNAN: You are grappled, but no longer stunned. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
NICK: You're next to me now. 
ABUBAKAR: So it's my turn. 
BRENNAN: It is your turn. 
TALIESIN: Fuck some shit up. 
ABUBAKAR: All right, let me think. 
TALIESIN: Smoke 'em if you got 'em. We're within 30 feet, so we have things now. 
NICK: I think she's next to me at this point. Emhira should be next to me. 
LAURA: I'm next to Ayden. 
BRENNAN: Okay, copy that, yep. 
ABUBAKAR: My first action is to activate Clockwork Cavalcade. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: "As an action, you summon spirits that look like modrons or other constructs of your choice in a 30 foot cube originating from you. Spirits are intangible and invulnerable and they create the following effects within the cube before vanishing. The spirits restore up to a hundred hit points. Divide as you choose among any number of creatures of your choice in the cube." I'm going to use all those a hundred to get me up-- 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
ABUBAKAR: -- to 166 as an action. 
TALIESIN: Welcome back. 
ABUBAKAR: Thank you. That's me done. As a spell caster, now-- 
BRENNAN: Is that a bonus action or an action? 
ABUBAKAR: That's an action. 
BRENNAN: Okay. You have a bonus action left. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, I can use my metamagic to make my-- 
BRENNAN: Quicken Spell, yes, absolutely. 
ABUBAKAR: Yes, Quicken Spell. Now I need to ask the table, has anyone used magic on these wards yet? 
LAURA: I used a Crown of Stars, which I don't-- I mean, is it a magical attack? It's radiant damage. 
BRENNAN: It's radiant damage. It is a spell attack, but it's not casting a spell. 
LAURA: Okay. 
NICK: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
LAURA: I don't know what that-- 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to try something and I don't know whether it's going to be a good fucking move or not. 
NICK: We're gods. 
TALIESIN: Go, do it. Big move, big bold move. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
TALIESIN: There's no safe way to do this. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to cast Meteor Swarm. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: Whole fucking area. 
TALIESIN: You know when I said when I was like big bold moves? (laughter) 
ABUBAKAR: There's a level. What are you going to do? 
TALIESIN: Whatever, Thanos, do what you got to do. 
LAURA: Do you get to choose where it hits? 
ABUBAKAR: It's within a mile. 
NICK: Within a mile? 
ABUBAKAR: It's going to be the fucking whole area. 
BRENNAN: So you create 40-foot radius spheres centered on each point you choose. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: So 40-foot radius is pretty enormous. You could hit the whole top of the dais with you in it. You can hit-- 
TALIESIN: You can also cut the edge of all of these. 
NICK: You can hit this whole-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah, you could just hit arms with each one. They don't have to be centered on-- 
LAURA: How many do you get to do? 
ABUBAKAR: I only get to do one. 
BRENNAN: Oh, sorry. No, four different points. You get four 40 foot radius. 
ABUBAKAR: Four. 
NOSHIR: Holy-- 
NICK: So you can target each. 
LAURA: You could hit all of them. 
BRENNAN: I'm going to say, there are two archmagi there with you. They're each going to come at you with a Counterspell. 
ABUBAKAR: I know. 
BRENNAN: They're out of their 9th-level spell slots. So they cannot auto counter it. 
TALIESIN: There's no auto win. 
BRENNAN: There's no auto win here, but we're going to make two rolls. If either of them is a 14 or higher, they're going to counter. But that's their reaction. So before we get too excited, we got to see because there's a lot of math that's going to happen if this works. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
BRENNAN: Here is Adamar. Adamar is rolling. On a 14 or higher, he counters. But remember, by the way, you have a reaction as well. You have your Counterspell too, right? 
ABUBAKAR: I do. I do. 
TALIESIN: Are they line of sight, I might add? Can you Counterspell without line of sight? 
BRENNAN: Yeah, they got him right here. 
LAURA: They're right next to him. 
TALIESIN: Oh, they're right there. Sorry. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm literally in the middle of them. So I can-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: None of the mages on the lower platform have line of sight to you because you're up on this upper plint essentially. 
ASHLEY: Great. 
BRENNAN: So, first one's coming. If they both hit, you have your Counterspell, right? Here's number one. We're looking for a 14 or higher. It's a 13! 
NICK: 13! (cheering) 
NOSHIR: Whoa! 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay! Okay! 
BRENNAN: First one reaches up. 
LAURA: Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god. 
BRENNAN: This is the moment you have been needing. So. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: Adamar throws one, doesn't get the job done. This next one, Selena is going to reach deep. She's going to upcast her Counterspell. 
LAURA: What does that mean? 
BRENNAN: It means that she can do it with a lower number, okay? 
LAURA: Oh, okay. 
BRENNAN: So she's going to use-- I know the level spell she's casting. I'm going to roll in front of the board just to keep it spicy. It's a 16 on the die from her. 
LAURA: Fuck. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to Counterspell. 
ASHLEY: Fuck. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
LAURA: Counterspell her Counterspell? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Okay, I'm going to let you know-- 
NICK: The old double Counterspell. 
BRENNAN: What spell-- I know the spell level she's using. Are you using a normal 3rd-level spell slot or are you using a higher level spell slot? 
LAURA: Higher, higher, higher. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to use my level-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah, because you said she's going up. 
NICK: Ball out. 
ABUBAKAR: Wait, where is it? I can't even-- 
NICK: Ball out. (laughter) 
LAURA: As high as you can. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, I'm going to use my level eight. My level eight. 
NICK: Yeah! 
BRENNAN: Level eight. 
NICK: That's what I like to hear. 
BRENNAN: You cancel out a level eight spell slot. (cheering) 
ASHLEY: Let's go! 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: This is what I'm here for! 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
NICK: Yes! 
BRENNAN: Meteor Swarm! (laughter) 
NICK: Woo! 
NOSHIR: Beautiful! 
BRENNAN: All right, baby. So everyone up here, fucking solar, mages, all of you, even in the darkness-- 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
BRENNAN: What you guys feel is space and time up here is-- Beyond the gods, pure reality being like: This is a little much for me! (laughter) 
BRENNAN: As you start warping with the force of three ultra high level Counterspells and a Meteor Swarm. 
NOSHIR: Holy shit. 
BRENNAN: Let's figure out what this fucking Meteor Swarm does, man. 
TALIESIN: Where you want to drop them? You've got a ton. 
ASHLEY: All right. All right. All right. 
BRENNAN: You've got four. 
ABUBAKAR: So definitely-- 
TALIESIN: Let's get a big circle. 
LAURA: Smack in the middle. 
ABUBAKAR: So I'm going to get one smack in the middle here. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
BRENNAN: So you're hitting yourself, baby. 
ABUBAKAR: I don't care. 
BRENNAN: You don't give a fuck. Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: Don't give a fuck. 
NICK: That's why he healed himself for 100. 
ABUBAKAR: Exactly. Honestly. 
NICK: He's about to deal himself 100. 
TALIESIN: You can also drop one over here, if you want. You've got so many op-- Or that might be too far. 
BRENNAN: So 40 feet is going to hit-- 
LAURA: All of the things. 
BRENNAN: -- all of those wards. 
ABUBAKAR: Brilliant. 
ASHLEY: Oh, yes! 
ABUBAKAR: There's going to be a beautiful baby over here. 
BRENNAN: Right here between these dragons? 
ABUBAKAR: Right here between these dragons. 
BRENNAN: Okay, unbelievable. Great. 
TALIESIN: Let's get some of these-- Yeah, no, up to you, up to you. 
ABUBAKAR: You know what? No, that's it. We're going to go over here too. 
BRENNAN: Great, perfect. Yeah. 
NOSHIR: Well, can I ask, this is a sphere, right? 
BRENNAN: It's a sphere, yeah. 
NOSHIR: So it goes down. 
BRENNAN: Well, it goes down as well. Yeah, absolutely. 
NOSHIR: So you could actually place it below, you know, so that sphere is high enough to encompass, but not high enough to hit you, for example. 
BRENNAN: You can get creative of catching people in the edges of it if you want to. Right? 
NICK: Right. You could go like one-- 
LAURA: It's a cylinder. It's a cylinder, isn't it? 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Cylinder or sphere? A cylinder. It'll be a cylinder because it's a drop. 
LAURA: Right. 
ABUBAKAR: So, okay. So I'm going to go-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah. No, yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to do-- 
TALIESIN: I'll be back. 
NICK: Because you could theoretically-- 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. 
ABUBAKAR: I could miss myself, right? 
BRENNAN: Also, you can double up spheres. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: You can be like, double. 
NICK: Yeah, you can drop them all in the middle. 
BRENNAN: You can double dip on the same spot with your spheres. 
ASHLEY: Double dip! 
LAURA: Maybe two in the one spot and then-- 
ASHLEY: Double dip that shit! 
ABUBAKAR: Brah! Brah! (laughter) (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
LAURA: Get it! 
BRENNAN: Oh my god. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. Let's do this then. 
BRENNAN: See, you guys see why I have to be so mean up until a certain point. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
NICK: Yes. 
NOSHIR: No! But anyway. 
ABUBAKAR: I was waiting. I was waiting. 
NICK: You can see my hit point total on that thing, right? 
BRENNAN: It's nasty, man. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: I'm seeing Ayden fucking covered in bruises and cuts from attacks he didn't even take, being like, "We needed a win." (laughter) 
BRENNAN: "We absolutely needed a win." 
ABUBAKAR: Right, so this is what I'm going to do. Look at me, I'm like fucking wriggling up here. I'm going to do this bit here in the middle, right? 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
ABUBAKAR: I am going to do it. I'm going to do it with me in there because it's just beautiful. 
BRENNAN: Cool. Beautiful. 
ABUBAKAR: Then I'm going to hit over-- I'm going to hit these dragons here twice. 
NICK: So this is the amount of damage-- 
BRENNAN: Okay, unbelievable. 
NICK: -- I've either healed, resisted, or redirected. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm then going to do, so I've already hit this one over here. You know what? Screw it. 
ASHLEY: Jeez Louise! 
NICK: I am at 14 hit points. 
LAURA: This one's damaged too, so-- 
BRENNAN: That ward is damaged over there. You could just hit the construct, essentially. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. I think-- 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: We've got one there. 
NICK: But you know what? We're both fucking Death Warded. 
NOSHIR: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: We've got two here. 
BRENNAN: Yep. 
ABUBAKAR: You know what? Screw it. I'm going to do another one in the middle here so we hit everything here. 
LAURA: Yeah! 
BRENNAN: Okay, so you're going to hit one, one two, and where's number four going? 
ABUBAKAR: It's going to be the same place. 
BRENNAN: Okay, so we're just double dipping in two spots. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Great, hell yeah. Okay, unbelievable. 
NICK: Hell motherfucking yeah. 
BRENNAN: Okay. So. 
NOSHIR: You're a monster, dude! 
BRENNAN: I'm going to need-- 
ASHLEY: Awesome. 
BRENNAN: You're going to have to do a lot of dice rolling. 
ABUBAKAR: All right, here. Do you want to know the die? 
TALIESIN: What do you need? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, it is 20d6 fire damage and 20d6 force damage. 
NOSHIR: Wow! 
ASHLEY: Jeez! 
BRENNAN: Yes. 20d6 bludgeoning. 20d6 bludgeoning. 
ABUBAKAR: Bludgeoning, yeah. 
BRENNAN: So for each-- 
NICK: Wait. 
LAURA: "W-w-wait." 
ABUBAKAR: It's 40d6, essentially. 
BRENNAN: Oh guys, sorry. 
NICK: Each one's 10, 10. 
BRENNAN: Sorry, I'm being foolish. It specifically says a creature in the area of more than one fiery burst affected only once. That's my mistake. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: So you want to spread them out. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: Hold on. A creature, not an object. 
LAURA: Or should it be both? 
BRENNAN: "Or half as much damage on it--" So this is specifically saying that the spell damages objects in the area and ignites flammable objects that are being worn or carried. 
NICK: So it says a creature cannot be affected more than once, but an object may? 
BRENNAN: This is the rules lawyerest shit I've ever seen. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: This is pretty typical rules lawyer shit. I'm pretty sure an object is very much a rules lawyery thing. 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. 
NICK: I'm just saying the goal here-- 
BRENNAN: It does specify-- 
NICK: -- is to destroy objects, not people. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
BRENNAN: So yeah, it does specify actually that the spell damages objects in the area. So yeah, you could double up and affect objects more. Objects can be affected more than once. Creatures only once, but objects not only once. 
LAURA: So only do the one in the corner because it's only going to hit him one time. 
NICK: Well no, but what I'm saying is if he drops the one, if he double dips in the middle-- 
LAURA: Yeah. 
NICK: Every single ward here-- 
NOSHIR: Gets hit twice. 
ASHLEY and NICK: Gets hit twice. 
ABUBAKAR: Gets hit twice. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
LAURA and ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
LAURA: Just don't double dip on the dragons because it's pointless. 
NICK: Yeah, don't double-- Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: So yes, I'll double dip on the wards. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: I'll do the dragons. I'll do one of the dragons over here. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: I'll do one of the dragon and the little beast over here. 
BRENNAN: And the beast over here. 
TALIESIN: You might even be able to get the little-- Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Cool. So we're going to resolve dragons first. Go ahead and give me-- And I would suggest rolling on the-- 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, can I roll on an app? 
BRENNAN: Yes, you can roll on the app. 
ABUBAKAR: So, how do I do that? 
LAURA: You hit the damage button, basically. 
NICK: That little die in the bottom left hand corner. 
TALIESIN: Bring up the spell again. 
ABUBAKAR: Sorry. 
TALIESIN: It's okay. 
NICK: Oh no, on the spell you can do it, can't you? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: Damage here, right? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. Wait. 
NICK: On the spell. 
TALIESIN: It may not be turned on for you. I could do that really quick, though. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Well, yeah, let's see. Sorry. 
BRENNAN: Hey, it is what it is, man. Meteor Swarm. I've never seen it in person. It's kind of beautiful, you know? 
NOSHIR: If anyone was going to do it-- 
LAURA: Is there a square that says the damage? 
BRENNAN: There you go. 
TALIESIN: No, he has to turn it on, though. I'm trying to find the-- 
LAURA: Oh, really? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, it may not be on on yours. Shit. 
BRENNAN: Cool. In that case, let's just start rolling. So we're going to do 20d6 fire and 20d6-- 
NICK: You can do it manually though. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh look, it's there. 
TALIESIN: There it is. Yeah, yeah. 
BRENNAN: Okay, great. 
ABUBAKAR: It's there. Found it. 
TALIESIN: Found it, here we go. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: Holy shit. 
TALIESIN: Here we go. 
ASHLEY: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. 
ABUBAKAR: That's 69. 
ASHLEY: 69! 
TALIESIN: 69. 
ASHLEY: 69! 
ABUBAKAR: But that's one 20d6. 
NICK: Nice. 
BRENNAN: Okay, that's one 20d6. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: So that's the fire damage. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. I need to roll it again. Can I roll it again? 
BRENNAN: Yeah, roll 20d6 for the bludgeoning. 
NICK: This is on the double dipper? 
BRENNAN: No, this is just each sphere is 20d6 fire, 20d6 bludgeoning. 
ABUBAKAR: So 69 plus 77. 
NOSHIR: Dude! 
BRENNAN: Hold on one sec. 
NICK: So this is dealing-- Holy shit. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, don't break yourself. It's just, yeah. 
BRENNAN: Hold on a second. I got to do this real quick. 
TALIESIN: As somebody who's been hit by Meteor Swarm before, you just can't think about it. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: Each one-- 
ABUBAKAR: 69 plus 77. 
NICK: -- is two instances of 20d6? 
ABUBAKAR: That's 146 damage. But if they fail the save-- 
TALIESIN: It's a god killer. 
NICK: 16-- 
LAURA: Is that true? 
ABUBAKAR: -- that's when it does the full 146. 
NICK: I can't even do this math in my head. 
ABUBAKAR: If they succeed, they only get half, I think. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: It's got to be a 9th-level spell, right? 
NOSHIR: Only get half. 
LAURA: It's a 9th. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, yeah. It's-- 
BRENNAN: 77. 
NICK: So you're dealing-- 
ABUBAKAR: 146. 
NICK: Well, but-- 
LAURA: "Ribbit (Well but)" (laughs) 
NICK: Over the course of this entire spell, you're rolling 160d6? 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
LAURA: That's crazy balls. NOSHRI: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, I think so. 
NOSHIR: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: It's spread-- yeah. 
NICK: In four areas. But my lord. 
TALIESIN: You can if you focus it, but you can also just spread it out a bit, which is what he's doing. 
BRENNAN: Okay, brass and shadow dragon are using legendary resistances just to halve damage. 
TALIESIN: Cool. 
BRENNAN: Brass dragon is screaming in the fire there. 
NICK: Love it. 
LAURA: In the darkness. 
BRENNAN: Honestly, you-- 
LAURA: Added to the wails of people mourning their loved ones. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Who are now on fire. (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Also, you feel, Arch Heart, you feel, SILAHA, Tishar elects to fail her save. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: Just going, "I like it." (laughter) 
NICK: I love her. 
NICK: What a maniac. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Love it. 
BRENNAN: That's these dragons over here. We're going to go Nalfeshnee and silver. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. You ready for this? Okay, here comes the first one. Here comes the first roll. Hold on, wait. 
NICK: I have never sweat more in my life. 
LAURA: I also-- 
ABUBAKAR: First roll is 64. 
TALIESIN: 64. 
ABUBAKAR: Plus-- 
NICK: Oh, with the-- 
ABUBAKAR: -- 64. So that's 128. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: This is also including that stupid little demon shit. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Down there? Yes, absolutely. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Are we catching the-- 
BRENNAN: Was that 64 and what? 
ABUBAKAR: It's 128 altogether. 
LAURA: Asha already left. 
BRENNAN: 128. 
LAURA: SILAHA's already out. Trist, I don't know where Trist is. 
TALIESIN: We were going to get those two in there as well? 
LAURA: You have to get out. 
ABUBAKAR: But then I'd be putting The Emissary at risk. 
TALIESIN: I was going to say-- 
ASHLEY: You have to get out. You have to get out. 
TALIESIN: -- with this circle or? 
NICK: I'm pretty good at reverse wisdom stuff. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, with this circle. 
BRENNAN: Silver uses a legendary resistance. All of the dragons move from fully healthy and fine to bloodied. All of the dragons are fully-- We're going to resolve damage first. So we did those two, now we're doing double dip up here. 
ABUBAKAR: Yep. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: So-- 
ASHLEY: I can-- Sorry, I can see through magical darkness. 
LAURA: Okay, okay. 
NICK: Wow. 
LAURA: No you can't, not this one. 
NICK: This is-- 
ASHLEY: Something else? 
ABUBAKAR: I just needed my turn. 
LAURA: Unless yours is-- 
ABUBAKAR: I really just needed my turn. 
BRENNAN: Really? 
ABUBAKAR: I really just needed my turn. 
BRENNAN: I really, really needed my turn. Okay, now we're going to roll for-- 
LAURA: Oh, maybe you can. 
NICK: Also, I love that they summoned you up there. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, it's beautiful. 
ASHLEY: Let me double check. 
ABUBAKAR: That was literally, my aim was to fly up and just cast it. But they just did it for me. 
BRENNAN: All right, give me the first rolls up here for the top of the dais. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. All right, you ready? 
BRENNAN: Yeah, give me fire first and then bludgeoning. 
ABUBAKAR: 67 fire. 
NICK: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: 67 bludgeoning. Wow, this is great. 
NOSHIR: What the heck? 
BRENNAN: Now give me for the second sphere. 
ABUBAKAR: All right. So that's 67, 67. Then hold on. 
NOSHIR: Fire and then bludgeoning. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to do those again. 77. 
NICK: I suspect we're going to get a few more of these. 
LAURA: I think so. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: 71. 
BRENNAN: 71. Okay. 
NOSHIR: 148 damage. 
BRENNAN: Okay, let's do this. Can anyone-- 
TALIESIN: (laughs) I've never seen this look on your face in my life. 
BRENNAN: What's your DC? The DC is it dex both times? 
ABUBAKAR: Yes, dex. I think it is dex. Hold on, let me just double check. 
BRENNAN: Okay, that's a nat 20 for Selena on the first save. 
LAURA: Whoa. 
ABUBAKAR: Beautiful, I want to save one more time with her anyway. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
NICK: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Is it a dex save for every sphere? 
ABUBAKAR: Everyone, dex 19. 
BRENNAN: And a 19 for Selena. So she saves twice. Adamar, that's a four. Okay, goodbye. Adamar is evaporated. 
NOSHIR: Wow. 
BRENNAN: Fully-- 
ABUBAKAR: That's your Wish, baby! 
NOSHIR and BRENNAN: (laugh) 
ABUBAKAR: Take your Wish. 
NOSHIR: Wish granted. 
TALIESIN: Did it damage you too? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: We'll see about that. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
LAURA: What was he concentrating on? 
BRENNAN: (sighs) Who fucking knows now? (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: What about that bloody angel? 
BRENNAN: Yes, so here's what's going to happen. Selena has a non-concentration spell on her that is granting her, she used a Wish spell to give herself and some of her allies immunity to fire earlier in the day. She's going to... ♪ Bah, bah, bah ♪ So she's going to take the bludgeoning, but she's going to halve it twice. So that's going to be 33 for the first one, and then for the second one, 35. 
NICK: But she's immune to fire you said. 
BRENNAN: But half of it's bludgeoning. 
NICK: But she only takes one instance because you can't double dip. 
BRENNAN: Oh, that's right. Thank you, yes, yes, yes. Thank you. 
NICK: Yep. I do it to you and I do it to us. 
BRENNAN: Yes, I hear you, man. 
NICK: Yeah, yeah. 
BRENNAN: It's fair, it's very fair. Okay, Selena is badly-- 
NICK: Lawbringer. 
NOSHIR: That was good. 
BRENNAN: -- badly injured, but she is still up. She's going to roll for concentration. 
NICK: Lawbearer. So caught up in everything. 
BRENNAN: Fails concentration, you are no longer grappled. 
ABUBAKAR: Brilliant. Take that fucked off me. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Take that fucked off me. 
LAURA: Also, sir. 
TALIESIN: That means you can move at any point now. 
BRENNAN: Yes? 
ABUBAKAR: Great. 
TALIESIN: It's still your turn. 
LAURA: Any of the dragons or creatures that started their turn within that darkness need to make a save again. I forgot to mention, I don't know if any of them-- 
BRENNAN: Oh, they need to make-- No, none of them have started their turn in there yet, I think. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: It's all been legendary actions thus far. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
BRENNAN: Yes. But when they start their turn, remind me of that again. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: We'll make that happen. Okay, the solar, Acastriel, has to make his dex saves. It's only going to be once. He fails. 
NOSHIR: Wow! 
LAURA: Oh! 
NOSHIR: Eat it! 
NICK: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: Just deliver him to me. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Poof! 
BRENNAN: He has no resistance to fire. 
NOSHIR: What? 
LAURA: He what? 
ABUBAKAR: Deliver him to me. 
BRENNAN: Okay. We're going to take it piece by piece. 67. 
ABUBAKAR: I'll take his wings first. 
NOSHIR and NICK: (laugh) 
BRENNAN: 67. 
ABUBAKAR: Then I'll take his hair. 
LAURA: That glorious hair. 
BRENNAN: Abu. How do you want to do this? 
LAURA: (gasps) 
NICK: Oh! 
NICK: Dude, you're out here killing my lieutenants, man, what the hell? (laughter) 
ABUBAKAR: You didn't Banish this boy. So essentially me being up there, they pulled me up there, and I'm looking horrible and it's just terrible. You can see the devastation in her eyes. There's a weird side of me that actually enjoys this, that enjoys the magical use on me, the use of Wish. This is the gift I've given to these people and they're now using it on me, and I find it gorgeous. Suddenly, there's a glint in my eyes and I'm like: How wonderful. Suddenly these meteor swarms just start pummeling down. One hit (laughs) that, I don't know what his fucking name is over there, is like, "Huh?" Boom! Out of sight. (laughter) 
ABUBAKAR: Just completely disappears. Selena's getting just battered, and I can see the angel as well just turn to be like, "Oh my god." His wings first, one clips his wings. Think of it like in "Soul Reaver" when Kain just rips the wings off Raziel? That's essentially what these meteors do to this thing. The fire just ends up burning him and just completely beautifies this horrible thing. Anyway, it's absolute devastation. So yeah, he basically gets disintegrated. 
BRENNAN: The angel looks at you. Give me a dexterity saving throw. 
ABUBAKAR: Happily. 
LAURA: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Oh, how many do you take? Is it two dex saves for the--? 
BRENNAN: No, because creatures are only affected once. 
TALIESIN: Oh, so you just have one? 
BRENNAN: So it's only one dex save. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to Teleport. 
BRENNAN: (gasps) And take the fucking-- Amazing, okay. 
ASHLEY: Cool. 
BRENNAN: Asha, you (bamf). 
NOSHIR: Wow! 
BRENNAN: Give me a dex save. 
TALIESIN: All right. I think I have advantage on dex saves. 
BRENNAN: Because it works-- 
NICK: So it's when you take damage. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
BRENNAN: But you're going to take half no matter what. So give me the dex save, we'll see if it's halved or not. 
ABUBAKAR: 20, nat 20. 
BRENNAN: Nat fucking 20! 
ASHLEY: What?! 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
LAURA: Of course. 
NOSHIR: This is beautiful. 
BRENNAN: Okay, so-- 
BRENNAN: Asha, you teleport to-- That's 134 halved. 
TALIESIN: Except I have evasion. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: So I literally just, I grab and start twisting you through this maelstrom. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) We're dancing. We're literally-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah, literally dancing through it. 
ABUBAKAR: -- moving around it. 
NICK: (applauds) 
TALIESIN: Dodging every stone and rock. 
NICK: (laughs) Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: In this subterranean chamber, who would build a subterranean chamber in the sky? This is not a party. Let's open up the sky. (magical emergence) A portal opens to the starry skies above, past the clouds. As meteors rain down, the Wildmother and the Arch Heart floating above the ground, dancing out of the way of falling fire-- 
LAURA: Amazing. 
BRENNAN: -- and raging starlight, as the archmage of the Cogence and Acastriel looks up, as the archmage of the Cogence and Acastriel looks up, as meteor star fire light burns into his celestial skin, and goes, "I will still be right, even when I am gone. I will--" (sparking) (explosion) incinerated, burnt wings vanishing into starlight, as two gods dance in the destruction. 
ABUBAKAR: Whoa. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
ABUBAKAR: Nature and beauty, baby. 
TALIESIN: Thank you, baby. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Come on, come on! 
TALIESIN: Not a hit point taken. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Now we have to resolve the fucking wards. 
NOSHIR: Oh my god. 
ABUBAKAR: Yep. 
BRENNAN: So they're going to each make two saves. Now, this is where it gets a little choppy because you have the potential for every greater ward to come down this round. They are, as objects, going to make saving throws. However, one of them is already badly injured. So do you want to start with the badly injured one? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, start with the badly injured one. 
BRENNAN: Okay, we'll do that. Okay, we'll start with the badly injured one. Here we go. 
TALIESIN: I want the toy. 
BRENNAN: We want the toy. I would like the toy. Here we go. So, 32 points. 
TALIESIN: Holy shit, I can't believe that worked. 
BRENNAN: I cannot believe it. 
NICK: Oh (laughs) my god. 
TALIESIN: I cannot believe that worked. You are a beast. 
ASHLEY: That was really cool. 
ABUBAKAR: Literally, I was like: Just give me a turn, man. Just give me a turn. Then when I was getting stunned, I was like: this ain't it, this ain't it! 
LAURA: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: These wards are immune to fire damage, but the bludgeoning damage is enough that it will push them past. The injured one needs to make both its saving throws. Your DC is a 19. This one needs to roll two 14s or higher to make it. They're still taking half damage. So at the end of this, every single one of these is going to be a push away from going down. Needs both to be a 14 or higher. That is a nine. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: (sparking) 
LAURA: Yes. Yes. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
BRENNAN: Down. All right. If any of these fail twice in a row, if one even rolls two 13s or lower, they go down same round, right? So we'll go for this one here. 12. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Could go down this round. This is about to maybe be the end of the episode. (laughs) Nine, another one goes down. 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
NOSHIR: Oh, dude! 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
ABUBAKAR: Yes! 
LAURA: ♪ Bring it, bring it, bring it, bring it, bring it ♪ 
BRENNAN: Okay. Four. 
LAURA: Oh! (laughter) 
BRENNAN: I'm a man of my word, right? I'm a man of my word, and if this totally changes the battle, it totally fucking changes it. 
NICK: (laughs) Oh no! 
BRENNAN: And a three! Oh fucking no. 
ASHLEY: Oh. (laughs) 
LAURA and ASHLEY: "Oh fucking no." 
ABUBAKAR: I would like to thank my mother. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Me too. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Where can we send a fruit basket for this one? 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
TALIESIN: Shit! Oh my god, what is this even going to mean? 
ABUBAKAR: Oh. 
BRENNAN: I mean, this means that-- 
NICK: We're-- 
BRENNAN: Hold on, let me ask-- 
NICK: We're going into overdrive is what this means. 
BRENNAN: I'm not going to lie to you, the tenor of this encounter is about to change quite radically. 
TALIESIN: Into it. 
BRENNAN: ♪ Ah, cha, cha, cha ♪ 
NICK: They still have a chance to kill some gods. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
TALIESIN: I'm sure they have other shit going on. 
ABUBAKAR: This is 40 foot as well, right? 
BRENNAN: You guys don't understand because you saw Divine Prowess, you don't understand the three on top. 
NICK: What these are. 
BRENNAN: You really don't. Arch Heart, having just taken-- I cannot believe that. I really cannot believe that. 
ASHLEY: Fucking-- 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: At this point, at this point, please choose one for yourself, but we have Divine Vitality, Divine Magic, and Divine Potency. Who would you like to read off these powers that now avail themselves to the gods? 
ABUBAKAR: I would like magic. 
BRENNAN: Of course. 
ABUBAKAR: Please have-- 
NICK: I'm in desperate need of Vitality. (laughter) 
NICK: I'm at 14 hit points. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. You have Vitality. And Potency, right? 
BRENNAN: Potency, yes. 
ABUBAKAR: Please. 
NOSHIR: Goodness. 
BRENNAN: Incredible. Okay, I'll ask you to turn it over when I point to you. I'll ask you to turn it over when I point to you. 
ASHLEY: Oh. (laughs) 
BRENNAN: And I'll ask you to turn it over when I point to you. Okay, so we can agree that it was looking quite bad, yes? 
LAURA: Yes. 
NICK: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: And is still looking quite bad. 
ABUBAKAR: Yes. 
BRENNAN: The wards come down, all of the mages down below, Selena up above. "No, no! Divinity, power of the gods." The first ward crumbles, Arch Heart filling you first. Please read divine magic. 
ASHLEY: Ooh. 
ABUBAKAR: "Once per turn, you may cast any cleric spell or domain spell of a domain you grant of any level once per turn without using a spell slot." 
TALIESIN: What? 
BRENNAN: Cast a 9th-level spell every turn. 
ABUBAKAR: "After calculating all bonuses, double your spell save DC and double the range, area of effect, and duration of all your spells." 
LAURA: Oh my god, guys. 
ASHLEY: Wait! 
ABUBAKAR: This is delicious. 
ASHLEY: Wait! 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: What?! 
LAURA: Are you kidding me? 
TALIESIN: We're healed and revived now. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: (laughs) Divine Vitality. 
NICK: "At the beginning of your turn, if you have not taken damage since the beginning of your last turn, you regenerate all hit points." 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my god! 
LAURA: (laughs) 
NICK: "All death saving throws are considered nat 20s. Max current HP and temp HP granted by your spells and abilities is multiplied by 10." 
ABUBAKAR: What? 
TALIESIN: Oh, you're unkillable now. 
NICK: "Immune to the poisoned, petrified, paralyzed conditions, immune to disease." 
LAURA: Wow. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my god. 
NICK: So-- 
NICK: Yeah. 
NICK: Max, current-- 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
NICK: So I go from 14 hit points to 140? 
BRENNAN: Correct. 
NICK: Sick. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: What we can do to make the math a little easier with D&D Beyond is I'm just going to take damage and divide it by 10 as I give it to you. 
LAURA: Okay. 
NICK: Cool, cool, cool. 
BRENNAN: It's just a zero, right? Noshir, would you please read Divine Potency? 
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm so excited. 
NICK: Holy-- 
NOSHIR: "Divine Potency. All damage from spells and weapon attacks are multiplied by 10." 
NICK: Oh! 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: Are you nuts? 
NOSHIR: "After rolling an attack roll, double the result. After calculating all bonuses, double your armor class." 
NICK: Oh no. 
NOSHIR: "Double your range with ranged weapons." 
LAURA: Wow. 
TALIESIN: Oh no! 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: It's not a fair fight, and it never was. 
LAURA: Wow. 
NICK: But it's really not fair now. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: They had their shot. 
BRENNAN: Everyone take copies of Divine Potency if you need it. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: Divine Vitality if you need it. 
TALIESIN: Oh wait, this is all of us? 
BRENNAN: And Divine Magic. 
TALIESIN: Oh shit. (laughs) 
BRENNAN: You're gods. 
ASHLEY: Oh my gods. 
BRENNAN: You are the gods. 
TALIESIN: I thought just they were getting it. 
BRENNAN: You are the gods. All of you watch-- 
LAURA: Who got Divine Magic? I want to see Divine Magic. 
BRENNAN: As Asha and SILAHA dance, your bodies, Asha, your physical body splits and bleeds as vines and roots begin to grow out from you. SILAHA, the machinery of your body is a suggestion because you are raw possibility and beauty. Four of seven divine wards have come down. You are barely hanging on to humanity. Trist, as you run into this place, your footsteps behind you begin to glow brighter than any light of magic in this space. You are losing your mortal selves, they are leaving you. Four of seven down. We are-- ♪ Da, da, da ♪ We are going to continue in initiative as fast as we can. SILAHA, incredible turn. 
LAURA: Amazing. Beautiful, glorious. 
ABUBAKAR: The tides of battle have changed. 
BRENNAN: Trist, that is your turn. You come charging into the battle, joining your brethren here. Again, to underline-- 
LAURA: I still can't be not blind, though. 
BRENNAN: -- casting, divine, you grant spells to thousands upon thousands of mortals. You can cast a 9th-level spell every turn. You grant them. What do you mean you can't cast spells? Your Vitality, your Potency, all of it. So you rush into the room. You are in between the paralyzed-- Oh, sorry, does one of them get rid of paralyzed or no? 
LAURA: Yes. 
BRENNAN: Vitality does? 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LAURA: Vitality is immune. 
NICK: Vitality. 
BRENNAN: So Zaharzht is out of the paralyzed condition, "(roars)" You watch the Betrayers too, it's the same thing for them. 
NICK: Yeah. Ruh roh. 
LAURA: I know, ruh roh. 
BRENNAN: So-- 
LAURA: It's going to go bad as soon as it's done. They're going to betray us again. 
BRENNAN: Trist, you rush into this space. What are you going to do? 
ASHLEY: Okay, so at the start of the turn, if you've not taken damage since the beginning of your last turn, you regenerate all hit points? 
BRENNAN: You're at full health. 
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm at full health. Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: You are at 2,180 health. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Okay, let's just see. 
ABUBAKAR: Just take down the ward. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Okay, great, great. 
BRENNAN: Sick. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Okay, so-- 
LAURA: For real, for real? 
BRENNAN: You have 2,000 hit points, yeah. 
ASHLEY: I would like to get up to, I want to be near The Emissary. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: I can see through magical darkness within 120 feet. 
BRENNAN: Yes, you can. Not this magical darkness, I don't think, but I think in this part we're going to rule it. You are the Everlight and as you begin to assume your form, you rush forward and join The Emissary. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Boy, what I was going to do I don't need to do this anymore. 
NOSHIR: Can I ask a question? 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
NOSHIR: Does this actually affect me? 
BRENNAN: This actually does affect you. 
NOSHIR: Even though I'm a representative and not actually a god myself. 
BRENNAN: That's an interesting point. 
LAURA: Oh. 
BRENNAN: I'm going to say, Noshir, I leave that up to you. Do you feel it makes more sense? 
NOSHIR: I don't think it would affect me. 
BRENNAN: Honorable, and I appreciate that. 
ABUBAKAR: I like that. 
BRENNAN: Yes. So, it is still, you know that there is still a-- 
LAURA: We still got to heal the shit out of Emissary. 
ASHLEY: Yes. Okay, got it. 
BRENNAN: 2,000 hit points can be-- 
ASHLEY: Got it, got it, got it. 
NICK: Well the good news is, I'm still taking half of all his damage. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
NICK: I have a lot more health than I did two seconds ago. 
ASHLEY: I can take up that mantle. 
BRENNAN: 2,000 hit points will be scrubbed away in an instant by this weapon. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: So it is still the blast you have to worry about, and The Emissary that does not have these gifts is still your only way to address that. So the tide has turned, but you are still very much in the frying pan right now, even as you become something that to these mortals appears beyond horrifying. 
LAURA: The dragons haven't gone yet and we need to heal. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, dragons haven't gone yet. 
LAURA: We need to heal. 
ABUBAKAR: I mean, is this beast gone? Because I did throw it down there as well? 
BRENNAN: Yes, yes, that's on death's door. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay, cool. 
BRENNAN: Yes. But, Trist, it is you. You rush forward to The Emissary. 
ASHLEY: Okay, I am going to cure The Emissary. Wait, do you have a condition? 
NOSHIR: I'm stunned. Wait no, I'm no longer stunned. 
NICK: You're no longer stunned. 
NOSHIR: I'm frightened. 
BRENNAN: You are frightened, yes. 
NOSHIR: And I'm beat up pretty bad. (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so-- 
TALIESIN: You can't get them through here. 
LAURA: You can do a 9th-level spell free. 
ASHLEY: So because you are within 10 feet of me now, you cannot be frightened. 
TALIESIN: Open it in a new tab. 
NOSHIR: Awesome. 
ASHLEY: So-- 
NOSHIR: Yay. 
ASHLEY: That is gone. 
NICK: Hell yeah. 
ASHLEY: Then I will do Cure Wounds at-- 
NICK: You can do-- 
LAURA: You can heal him. 
ASHLEY: I just heal you. 
NICK: Yeah, you can do Power Word Heal, which will, he'll just regain all his hit points. 
ASHLEY: Great. 
LAURA: Yeah, that seems-- 
ASHLEY: Power Word Heal. 
NOSHIR: Wow, thank you. 
NICK: Not only is he immune to frightened, but he is now cured of frightened. 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. 
NICK: That condition just fully ends. Oh no! 
BRENNAN: What's that? 
LAURA: What? 
NICK: No, you're not a construct, are you? 
ABUBAKAR: No, he is a construct. 
BRENNAN: He is a construct. 
NOSHIR: I am a construct. 
BRENNAN: I think you're a construct, yeah. 
NICK: Power Word Heal has no effect on constructs. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so let's just do-- 
NOSHIR: Back to 45 I go. 
NICK: Mass Heal, you can heal 700 hit points to anyone you can see. 
LAURA: Yeah, that's probably good. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Let's do that, and then you are back up. 
LAURA: Then all of of us. 
NICK: That's divided-- 
ASHLEY: All of us are-- 
NICK: -- any way you choose and creatures that you heal are also cured of all diseases, blinding, and deafened. 
ASHLEY: Great, great. Okay. 
BRENNAN: So you can hit Emhira and The Emissary. 
ASHLEY: Yes, let me do that. Then-- 
NICK: So how much total is that? Because you probably will have more to spread around. 
NOSHIR: That was 240 for me. 
TALIESIN: Damn. 
LAURA: That was 105 for me. 
NICK: You still have 355 left to-- 
TALIESIN: Once you're done, I'll take like 10 points. 
ASHLEY: I'll give you some. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'll take-- 
ASHLEY: Just so everybody's full up. 
TALIESIN: -- 14. 
BRENNAN: Great. 
ASHLEY: Anybody who needs healing, take it. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'll take that. Do you need any healing? Are you all right? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah, I will. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah, take some. 
NICK: How much do you need? 
BRENNAN: Yes. Tishar's okay, yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: How much do I get? 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
LAURA: Tishar's okay? 
BRENNAN: Tishar's okay right now. 
TALIESIN: What do you need? 
ABUBAKAR: Just maybe like 40. 
ASHLEY: You got it. 
TALIESIN: Oh, I mean, yeah. Just top off. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
NICK: So that leaves 301 for me. 
ASHLEY: Okay, great. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
ASHLEY: As a-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Shit, I did want to, as I was leaving the room, do Blinding Smite on my-- 
NICK: There's 60 hanging around that you can grant to someone else. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Who of our-- Zaharzht is kind of in rough shape? 
BRENNAN: Zaharzht has come out of paralysis and Father Milo is back there as well. 
LAURA: We got to get those wards. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: We have two wards left? Three wards left. 
BRENNAN: You have have three wards left. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so whoever else needs healing of our Betrayer pals. They can-- 
BRENNAN: Zaharzht will take some, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Great. Okay, great. 
NICK: 60 is I think what was left. 
BRENNAN: Okay, cool. Zaharzht takes 60. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Is that 60 as in, is that a multiplicative of 10 from Divine-- 
NICK: No, that's 60 hit points. 
BRENNAN: 60 hit points. Got you. Cool. 
ASHLEY: There's something I would like to try. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Because I would like to try to maybe use a skill check, but this might end up being an action. 
BRENNAN: Let me know what you got in mind. 
ASHLEY: I want to talk to the construct here in front of me-- 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
ASHLEY: -- and try to persuade it to do something. 
BRENNAN: Amazing. What do you want to persuade it to do? 
ASHLEY: I want you to destroy the ward in front of you. 
NOSHIR: (sharp exhale) 
BRENNAN: This construct was created by the might of Aeor 
BRENNAN: This construct was created by the might of Aeor to destroy the gods and protect the weapon meant to kill them with its very life. So it's going to be a DC 40 persuasion check. 
NICK: Oh that's going to be easy for you. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: DC 40 persuasion. 
TALIESIN: Great for a monk. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Oh man. 
LAURA: That's high. 
TALIESIN: I love it. I'm dying. 
NICK: It would be double though. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so I rolled-- 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: -- a natural 19. 
BRENNAN: (gasps) 
LAURA: So you got it. 
ASHLEY: Then for persuasion I have plus 11. 
BRENNAN: So that's 30. 
ASHLEY: After rolling a skill check, double the result? 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: This machine, crafted by the greatest mortal mages ever, looks through impenetrable darkness, crafted by the Matron of Ravens. Its oculus unable to see, even with all of its arcane might. It sees the light of hope and redemption and healing from the dawn of time. There is no possibility for it to ignore the commands of its makers. It would take a miracle for it to do something like that. It goes (energy surging) "I believe." (crash) It's going to punch the ward underneath its feet. 
ASHLEY: Oh! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Let's go! 
BRENNAN: (laughs) Hell yes. 
LAURA: I love that you could Guiding Bolt it and you're just like: I want you to do it, baby. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. You got this, you got this. Well I already did Mass Heal. 
LAURA: You get a free 9th-level! 
ASHLEY: I get a free-- But isn't that what the Mass Heal was? 
LAURA: You get also a spell. 
ASHLEY: Another one? 
BRENNAN: No, you don't get an extra action for the spell. It still takes your action-- 
LAURA: Oh, okay. 
BRENNAN: -- to cast it. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. Okay, okay. 
BRENNAN: But you see this thing does-- 
NICK: You don't need to spend a spell slot. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. Okay, okay. 
BRENNAN: -- 60 force damage, raises a fist up, (forceful smash) shatters the ward. 
TALIESIN: Oh no. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh no. 
TALIESIN: More, I want more. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my god, this is glorious. 
LAURA: Also get out of my sphere, because anything that starts its turn in the sphere is going to take a lot more damage than it did before. 
ASHLEY: But-- 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay. (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Let's do this. I'm going to do this, this'll be fun. 
ASHLEY: Get a plus five bonus to saving throws if you're within 10 feet of me. 
ABUBAKAR: Lord-- 
LAURA: Great. 
ABUBAKAR: This is-- Ugh, wow. 
LAURA: But it doesn't stack with you, right? 
ABUBAKAR: This is so tense. 
ASHLEY: I don't think it'll stack. 
LAURA: Okay. 
NICK: That is actually-- 
TALIESIN: Debatable. 
NICK: That is a debatable topic. 
LAURA: Okay, okay. 
BRENNAN: What's a debatable topic? 
NICK: Whether paladin auras stack. 
BRENNAN: Oh, interesting. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm going to say for our purposes, no. 
NICK: No, yeah. 
BRENNAN: But, Ashley. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
NICK: But it's not explicitly-- 
LAURA: Oh, you get to choose one. 
BRENNAN: Pick one. 
ASHLEY: Oh, I get to choose one? 
BRENNAN: You get to pick one. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: You're like: I'll take them all. 
TALIESIN: I mean, you know. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, go on, read it. 
ASHLEY: Okay. "Divine Resistance." 
TALIESIN: Ah! 
ABUBAKAR: (sighs) 
ASHLEY: "Legendary resistances times five." 
BRENNAN: All of you have legendary resistance times five. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
BRENNAN: So you have five legendary resistances. 
ASHLEY: "After rolling a saving throw, double the result. Immune to all non-magical damage, immune to all weapon damage from non artifact weapons, immune to all spell damage from spells of 6th-level or lower. You gain two elemental damage immunities and four elemental damage resistances of your choosing." 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
ASHLEY: Sheesh! 
BRENNAN: I'd pick radiant as an immunity. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Divine Resistance. Two wards left. Things are not looking good for the forces of Aeor. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
LAURA: Sheesh Lou-eesh. 
ASHLEY: Aw! 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NOSHIR: No, it's good. 
ASHLEY: I got you, I got you. 
NOSHIR: I got the coolest friends ever. 
ASHLEY: I'm your protector. 
BRENNAN and NOSHIR: (laugh) 
BRENNAN: Okay. At the end of your turn, we are going to come back. 
NICK: My lord. 
ABUBAKAR: I don't even know, what does legendary resistance do? 
NICK: You can just save, I think. 
LAURA: You get to reroll and-- 
TALIESIN: It's not even-- 
LAURA: No, you don't have to roll. You just say, "I save it." 
TALIESIN: No, you just-- "I make it." 
NOSHIR: It's like Neo when he's like, "No." 
TALIESIN: Yeah, like, "Roll to save," "No." 
LAURA: Five times. 
TALIESIN: "I'm good." Five times. Five times you can just nope out of it. It's what they keep doing to us. 
NICK: Do they got-- 
BRENNAN: Breath weapon recharge on the silver dragon. 
ABUBAKAR: Just give it to him. 
BRENNAN: Two, doesn't get it. 
NICK: "Just give it to him." (laughter) 
BRENNAN: "Give it to him." 
NICK: So disrespectful. 
NOSHIR: Let's not be hasty. 
ASHLEY: Aw, let him have it. 
BRENNAN: You have to understand. Listen-- 
TALIESIN: Let him do it himself. Let him to it himself. 
BRENNAN: We're playing a game, we play it as it lays. In my head I was like: As they come down one at a time, they will slowly-- (laughter) 
BRENNAN: So this dragon is going to make its attacks again with disadvantage. Miss. 
ASHLEY: This is so fun. 
NICK: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: What's that? Everyone the first hour of the combat like, "What the fuck are you doing, man?" Now everyone's like, ♪ La-la-la ♪ 
ASHLEY and BRENNAN: ♪ La-la-la ♪ (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Okay. Dragon does not recharge breath weapon. 
NICK: Can I suggest that everyone be immune to radiant damage? 
ABUBAKAR: Yes. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I mean-- 
NICK: Because I'm about to pop off. 
LAURA: Oh. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Laura, what kind of damage do you do? 
LAURA: Necrotic, no, that's psychic damage in the-- 
TALIESIN: So psychic damage, radiant damage. I'm going to add some fire damage just for, you know. Psychic and radiance seem like good ideas. 
ABUBAKAR: But we've also definitely got to be careful with The Emissary, right? 
NOSHIR: How far do I have to go before I'm out of the darkness? 
NICK: I'm taking half of all The Emissary's damage. 
LAURA: You have to be out farther than 60 feet. 
ASHLEY: I can help with that. 
NICK: I just went from 14 hit points to 380. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay, and yeah, you're at 2,000. So yeah. 
NICK: So I'm feeling good. 
LAURA: Can you jump away? 
NOSHIR: Well, I guess my question is-- 
TALIESIN: Keep him up and running. 
NOSHIR: I'm assuming I'd be doing the jump at disadvantage, right? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
NOSHIR: Because I'm essentially jumping into nothing. 
BRENNAN: Teleporting to the ruined dais-- 
LAURA: I could drop it. 
BRENNAN: -- a group of Aeorian archmages, their city's being destroyed, rush forward to defeat the-- 
NICK: Hell yeah. 
TALIESIN: Hey, we've got some things to play with. 
ABUBAKAR: We've got some friends. 
TALIESIN: I'm so excited. 
NICK: Hell yes. 
ABUBAKAR: Come and dance, please. 
NOSHIR: Run! Run. Fly, you fools! (laughter) 
LAURA: We have to still protect The Emissary. 
BRENNAN: Okay. One of them-- 
ASHLEY: I'm on protection duty. 
BRENNAN: -- teleports in, the other four-- 
NICK: The two of us are next to him now and it's going to be almost impossible to deal-- 
BRENNAN: The other four are looking around, they just see magical darkness. One of them is going to hit the magical darkness with a Dispel, and cannot do it because your spell save-- 
LAURA: It's 8th-level. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, it's 8th-level. 
LAURA: But yeah, it's a 19 DC. It was doubled. Now it's doubled too, isn't it? 
BRENNAN: Now it's doubled. 
LAURA: Jesus. 
BRENNAN: I am going to need two constitution saving throws from SILAHA, two constitution saving throws from the Wildmother. 
TALIESIN: Are we doing anything? Did our constitution change in any way? I feel like it did. 
NICK: After rolling a saving throw, double the result. 
TALIESIN: Oh, okay. 
ABUBAKAR: Okay, that's 60. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: 20, 30, 40, 50-something. 
NICK: I'm assuming these are spell levels higher than six? 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
NICK: Okay. 
ABUBAKAR: 46, 60 and 46. 
TALIESIN: 17, 27, 28, something in the 40s, 50s for the first one. 
BRENNAN: Yes, great. 
TALIESIN: I'm adding the other one also. A nat 20. Yeah, we're fine. 
BRENNAN: It's just like an 80 or something like that. Cool, so you are going to take, necrotic damage comes rocketing at you. Four Wish spells come barreling down, two to each of you. 
LAURA: Oh shit. 
BRENNAN: But you've saved for half. So it's 120 halved to 60 necrotic, 60 necrotic. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
NICK: So it would do six damage. 
BRENNAN: Then 60 force damage, and 60 force damage. 
ABUBAKAR: That's 12 damage then. 
BRENNAN: Yes, so it's 12 damage to each of you. 
ABUBAKAR: Thank you. 
NOSHIR: Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
NICK: Lord have mercy. 
LAURA: Wow. 
ABUBAKAR: This is where it gets fun. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) So yes, 12 damage to each of you from four Wish spells. 
LAURA: Wow! 
ABUBAKAR: That's so crazy. 
ASHLEY: Wow. Wow. 
BRENNAN: As they're just bending reality like: (intense spellcasting). You see some of them are feeling years of their life get lost in time streams. Others of them, their soul is shredding under the power as their fingers peel back from the bone, trying to control this magic for, effectively, 12 points of damage. 
ASHLEY: Oof! 
BRENNAN: That's them. Up here, one of them uses a Force Wave, hurls this automaton off the side, knowing it now to be a traitor. The other one is going to drop a Meteor Swarm of their own here-- 
NICK: Hell yeah. 
BRENNAN: -- in the midst of all of this. 
NICK: Hell yes. We deserve that. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
NOSHIR: Speak for yourself. 
NICK: I got you, dog. I can take all your damage. 
ASHLEY: I am going to-- You see spectral wings. 
NICK: This is the third turn. 
BRENNAN: Spectral wings. Okay, amazing. 
ASHLEY: Pop out from behind Trist, white and metallic. 
NICK: Is this the second turn? 
ASHLEY: I am going to embrace The Emissary with the wings. You get a plus six bonus to your AC. 
NOSHIR: Wow. 
TALIESIN: Whoa. 
BRENNAN: Okay, beautiful. 
NICK: Sick. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NOSHIR: Thank you. 
BRENNAN: Meteor Swarm is coming down. This Meteor Swarm on The Emissary could be pretty considerably bad, but that's coming down now. With that-- Hold on one second. Okay. I'm going to need a dexterity saving throw from everybody in this area. So that's Ayden, Emhira, The Emissary, and Trist. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
NOSHIR: Oh, that is not good. 
LAURA: This is a dexterity? 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
TALIESIN: This is going to get weird. 
ASHLEY: We have things here? 
BRENNAN: You are doubling your saving throws after you roll them. 
LAURA: Yes, and we get plus five because of you. 
NICK: We get plus five because of me. 
NICK: Doubling-- 
ASHLEY: After bonuses? 
BRENNAN: After bonuses. 
NICK: After calculating all bonuses, double your spell save. 
LAURA: Then double it. Wow. 
NICK: What kind of save DC is this? 
LAURA: So that would be 52. 
NICK: This was a dex? 
BRENNAN: This would be 52, amazing. This is dex, yeah. 
NICK: 18, 36. 
NICK: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Hang on. 43. 
BRENNAN: Oh, the gods are here. Emissary, what did you roll? 
NOSHIR: So I got an eight plus five, and then I get a plus five for being within range of you? 
NICK: Yeah. 
NOSHIR: So I get an 18. 
BRENNAN: You are going to take the full 140 points of damage. 
LAURA: Oof. 
NOSHIR: (panicked breathing) 
ASHLEY: No. 
BRENNAN: No? (laughs) 
ASHLEY: No, wait a minute, yes. 
NICK: So firstly, that's 70. Because we're bonded, that's 70. So you're taking 70, but she's going to do something too, but that's just off the top. Then I'm taking seven. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
ASHLEY: Well if you do that, then I don't have to do what I'm going to do. I'm going to save it. 
BRENNAN: Okay, cool. 
LAURA: But he still takes 70 damage. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LAURA: Emissary. 
ABUBAKAR: So how much HP you got left? 
NOSHIR: 215. 
ABUBAKAR: I mean, all right. 
NICK: Oh right, because you got fully healed. 
ASHLEY: Fully healed, yeah. 
LAURA: Okay, okay. 
NOSHIR: Lol! 
ASHLEY: Yeah. But I'm going to stay close. 
NICK: I was like: Wait, he's close to-- Oh no, you're fine. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: I'm going to stay close. 
BRENNAN: Unbelievable. Okay. Ayden, that is your turn. What's The Emissary at right now? 
NOSHIR: HP? 
BRENNAN: HP. 
NOSHIR: 215. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) Okay, Ayden, that's you. 
NICK: Oh gosh, I didn't realize it was going to be me so soon. Oh my god. Well-- Damn, okay. I will-- I will-- 
LAURA: (laughs) 
NICK: Shucks. Absorb Elements is a-- No, that's not great. So there's two demons here? 
BRENNAN: Two demons, a bunch of dragons, a bunch of archmagi up on the top. 
NICK: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
NICK: Well, you know what? Ayden, feeling this surge of divine energy as Ayden, the Dawnchild. I think you all watch as Ayden rapidly begins to age. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
NICK: He will, as he rapidly begins to age, he doubles over and then bursts up. I will cast Sunburst as an explosion of light fills 120 feet of this chamber because I'm doubling radius. 
ASHLEY: Cool. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
LAURA: So what level is that? 
NICK: I'll cast it at 9th-level just because why not? 
LAURA: Okay, great. Then that overcomes my magical darkness because mine was 8th-level. 
NICK: It will overcome your magical darkness. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
NICK: Oh, I need to make a check at the beginning of this, though. 
LAURA: Sure, sure. 
NICK: What's my DC? 
ASHLEY: 19? 
LAURA: Is it double? 
NICK: Oh god. 
LAURA: So it's 38. 
NICK: 38. 
BRENNAN: What kind of check are you making? 
NICK: I have to-- Oh, I can just use one of my legendary resistances. 
LAURA: Oh, just resist it. 
NICK: Hey, I don't need to roll dice. 
NOSHIR: Must be nice. (laughter) 
NICK: So what does it do? What does it do to me? 
LAURA: It would give you psychic damage. 
NICK: Oh. And if I succeed, it just doesn't, 
LAURA: Exactly. Oh, well, it gives you half damage. 
NICK: Okay. You can tell me how much damage I'll take there. Keeping in mind that that will be multiplied by 10, so I'll take-- 
BRENNAN: The normal damage, yeah. 
NICK: But I'll have resistance to it. So that is 12d6 radiant damage on a failed save. So literally everyone. 
BRENNAN: Everyone in this chamber. 
NICK: Everyone here. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: Because it's 120, which I'm assuming is this whole chamber. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
NICK: Oh, this-- 
BRENNAN: Could fuck up The Emissary. 
NICK: -- could fuck up The Emissary because-- Have I used my reaction this turn? It's only round two. I think I have used my reaction. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, you have. 
ASHLEY: I can take his damage. 
NICK: You can take his damage, great. Sunburst! So 12d6 damage. 
BRENNAN: Okay. 
NICK: So that will be, I'll just roll it here. Is it 12d6? No, 12, yeah, 12d6. 
TALIESIN: Times 10. 
NICK: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: What! Is that really? 
NICK: How do I-- 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my lord. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
NOSHIR: I don't even know if it's worth it for me. 
NICK: I'm going to roll it here. 
BRENNAN: Cool. 
TALIESIN: I mean, you got people working. 
NICK: That's 9, 14, 14, 24, 25, 35, 36, 37 times 10. So 370 damage to everyone here. Anyone who fails their saving throw of a 38 is blinded for a minute. 
BRENNAN: (gently) Morning comes. (laughter) 
NICK: I think as the Dawnfather truly begins to shine, he will look out at the wizards especially of Aeor, and say: Your magic blotted out the sun, and so you could not see the stars, and forgot that there were things above you. 
BRENNAN: (whooshes) 
NICK: And then dawn will break. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: Every person that I'm peeling off of the board now is one of the most brilliant mortal wizards that ever lived. 
NICK: I was way more psyched when I started that action than I feel now. (laughter) 
LAURA: It didn't take Selena out. 
NOSHIR: It's a good speech though. 
NICK: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: It didn't take Selena out. 
BRENNAN: Selena immune to fire, immune to radiant. 
LAURA: Oh, that's right, she Wished. 
NICK: She does have to make a check to be blinded, however. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. Unsurprisingly, she fails. She is blinded. 
LAURA: 16 damage from my psychic. That's after it was halved. 
BRENNAN: But that 16 is 160. So, yeah, 16 damage. We're going to roll for all these monsters here as well. 
NOSHIR: Do I need to roll? 
NICK: So you're able to just take that damage and you're immune to radiant. 
ASHLEY: I aura of the guardian, I will (whooshes) take any of the damage that you would've taken. So that will be-- 
NOSHIR: I have never felt so babysat in my life. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Yeah, you're set. So that would be-- 
LAURA: But you're immune to radiant. 
BRENNAN: It's a save for half, right, Nick? 
NICK: It's save for half. 
NOSHIR: Cool. 
NICK: And what did I say, 370. 
ABUBAKAR: 370. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
NICK: So 185 is half. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: 185 is half. 
NICK: Is that right? 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: Yep, yep. 
BRENNAN: Hold on. As the darkness leaves, Tishar leaps here. You kill three dragons in a single spell. 
ASHLEY: (gasps) 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my. 
ASHLEY: What? 
BRENNAN: The shadow dragon goes, "No, no!" (explosion) Gone. The light of the sun comes. It is the source of all life on Exandria. What can resist it? Nothing, nothing can. You see, we didn't even get to have this moment necessarily, but you see, these dragons go, the shadow Ataro (groans). The brass dragon (groans). Silver dragon, "No, not my city. My city. My name was--" She vanishes before you can ever learn her name. 
ABUBAKAR: What about these guys? 
BRENNAN: Oh yeah, what am I talking about? 
LAURA: The glabrezu's just like, I'm fine. 
ABUBAKAR: Like (questioning grunts). 
TALIESIN: We're all good, right? We're good, we're good? Okay, now. 
LAURA: Whoa, that's a scary little demon guy I didn't see. 
BRENNAN: Yes, absolutely. These guys were already plenty hurting. 
TALIESIN: That demon, I don't know about. 
LAURA: What about the demon in front of your-- 
BRENNAN: Gone, gone. Let me see here, gone. As we move through-- (pensive tsking) Oh, you've been gone. We move down, yeah. All the dragons incinerated by the light of the sun. 
NICK: I think you see that, I think the divine beings here, as this surge of divine energy has entered us, the glow that was emanating from Ayden has moved from his heart to his head. And his face is still visible, but he has aged and is crying. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh my god. 
BRENNAN: You witness a very different battlefield before you. How much damage did you do? 
NICK: So it was 370 halved to 185. 
BRENNAN: 185. This last Irrevocable is still up. And with that-- 
NICK: That was my action. 
BRENNAN: (screams) Yeah, go for it. (laughter) 
NICK: So I will leap onto the platform. 
LAURA: You have Longstrider, too, didn't you? 
NICK: Yeah, my movement is 40. 
NOSHIR: You're busting out special dice now? 
NICK: I think now that we're so pumped up-- 
LAURA: Oh, now that you're divine. 
NICK: -- I got to roll these dice. 
NOSHIR: Oh, baby. 
NICK: Yeah, I got some sweet special dice. What's the DC to jump this gap? 
BRENNAN: 20. 
NICK: 20, so I roll a two with athletics. That becomes a 13, which becomes a 26. 
BRENNAN: Great. 
NICK: So I jump it, and then I will move 40 feet towards this thing. Then that will put me within 30 feet seeing or hearing rather of Asha. I will say: Only two wards remain. I will Commanding Rally you. Have you used your reaction this term? 
TALIESIN: Nope, I don't. 
BRENNAN: No, you have not. I don't think so, just that-- 
NICK: Oh, you just did. 
BRENNAN: Oh, you did. Yeah, yeah. 
NICK: You've used yours. 
LAURA: It's so hard to know. 
NICK: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: SILAHA used his reaction on the turn where he cast Meteor Swarm. Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
NICK: You haven't yet. I will use Commanding Rally on you. You can throw your weapon. You can make an attack. 
LAURA: Against one of the wards? 
NOSHIR: Whoa. 
NICK: Against one of the wards. 
TALIESIN: That one right there. 
NOSHIR: I don't know if that's within range. 
NICK: The one just came to you. 
TALIESIN: Everything's within battle range. 
NOSHIR: Not for me. (laughs) 
NICK: An unbroken one has just arrived. 
BRENNAN: One has just arrived in front of you. 
NOSHIR: (laughs) So I'm allowed that single action, right? 
NICK: You can make an attack action. 
NOSHIR: Okay. (vocalizing) 
NICK: You will add-- These dice are so sick. You will add four damage. 
BRENNAN: You'll add 40 damage. 
NICK: You'll add 80 damage because you double damage to objects. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
NICK: Bye-bye! 
NOSHIR: That's a five plus what? 16, so that's 21. 
LAURA: To hit? 
BRENNAN: 21 to hit, that hits. 
NOSHIR: Okay, so let me ask. You gave me the chance to attack as an action. 
NICK: I gave you-- As a bonus action, I can command one ally within 30 feet to make an attack because they can see or hear. 
NOSHIR: As an action? 
NICK: They can immediately make one as a reaction. 
NOSHIR: As a reaction, okay, so I only get the one. 
ABUBAKAR: Not like you need another because you've just-- 
LAURA: You're going to destroy it. 
TALIESIN: There's nothing left to hit there, yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah, at least 80 damage, it's out. Yeah? 
BRENNAN: Oh, yeah. 
NOSHIR: I mean, I rolled an eight, so that's 18 plus 80? 
NICK: Well, well you rolled an eight. That goes up to 18, which becomes a 36 plus 80. So 100-- 
ABUBAKAR: Well, no, because he's not a god. 
BRENNAN: He's not a god. 
ABUBAKAR: Right. 
NICK: He doubles damage to objects though always. 
BRENNAN: Okay, gotcha, yeah. 
NICK: Yeah, not that it really mattered, but. 
BRENNAN: So like 160 damage. 
NICK: 116. 
BRENNAN: This whole is just cleft off, this lip of this machine as this ax, divine justice is here. (explosion) As you hit that ward, the sixth of seven, please read this for me. 
NOSHIR: "Divine awareness, truesight, blindsight, tremorsense to 120 feet." Must be nice. "You can speak and understand all languages, spoken and written, and can communicate telepathically with any creature you can see." 
LAURA: Wow. 
NOSHIR: "Immune to charmed, frightened, stunned, blinded, and deafened conditions." 
BRENNAN: As you all gain truesight-- As you all gain truesight, illusion fades. You cannot be fooled by the presence of magic. Father Milo Cowst disappears. 
LAURA: Oh my god, what is he? 
NICK: That mother father. 
LAURA: He wasn't even sending. 
NICK: He did what you did. He's somewhere doing something sketchy. 
LAURA: That's why he came out and he didn't even fucking do anything. He was just like, the Dawnfather's here, and then didn't do anything. 
BRENNAN: You hear a voice, Matron. "It's close by, it's close by!" You see Selena up at the top, the archmage, a small glass encasement around her neck, a small glass encasement around her neck, something that the celestial handed to her in the recording. Ayden, at the end of your turn, you've used your action, bonus action. There's one ward left. It is Selena's turn. 
TALIESIN: Shit. 
LAURA: Oh no. 
BRENNAN: Selena, she's blind. She calls out, "I repent, I repent, I repent. You who I made, who made me, I wish to know your light. The gift you have given, take back from me if you need. Please let me know your light." 
ABUBAKAR: How cute. No. I walk back and watch her. 
BRENNAN: She stands blinded looking out. She tosses her staff to one side. She takes the glass and sends it to oblivion, tossing it up within that encasement is a god that is about to be destroyed by the Factorum Malleus. You see that she is preparing with this object interaction. There is a spell happening. In this moment, you have both used your reactions, but I will allow you because she's reverent to you in this moment. You can do one of two things. A member of your family here from the dawn of time, she is rocketing towards the starry portal above to send to oblivion forever. She's also attempting to cast some piece of mortal magic. Perhaps something to save herself. Who knows? Your call, Abu, a fork in the road. 
TALIESIN: We don't know which family member it is. 
BRENNAN: You don't know which family member it is and you do not know what she's attempting to do. 
ABUBAKAR: Shit. This is an action? 
BRENNAN: It's not a full, it's basically, it's a choice. 
LAURA: All us have used our reactions, haven't we? 
TALIESIN: We're all pretty burnt. 
ASHLEY: Do I have a reaction? 
LAURA: You already used it to, well.. 
ABUBAKAR: She's going to cast some form of mortal magic. 
NICK: Is this still the second? 
LAURA: This is still the second round. 
BRENNAN: Second round-- two round combat. 
ASHLEY: Shit. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going-- (exhales) Fuck. I'm going to go and save our family member. 
BRENNAN: You leap up, catch the emblem. Slitch is going nuts in that little glass case. Before it goes to oblivion, you save something eternal that you have loved forever. As you grasp it, you allow her mortal magic to unfurl, a Wish spell (small puff) that she makes in this moment. "What we have worked and strived and bled for, let no god take away." Her mind pierces your chest. The scrolls within you feed into her mind and she casts it out wide. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: You feel her mind. We move from this moment as her Wish unfurls, escaping, vanishing towards the edges. We move from here back to the top of the round. You are there with the glass, the Wish rippling out as her mind pierces your chest. Emissary, it is your turn. 
NOSHIR: Where is the last remaining ward? 
BRENNAN: Right here with this Irrevocable. But you need to be prepared. You have to have, when that goes down, you need to be ready. 
ASHLEY: For what? 
ABUBAKAR: (giggles) What? 
NICK: I think he's the thing that suppresses the explosion. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: You've known it for a long time. 
NOSHIR: I'll turn to the Everlight and I whisper: I am worthy. He leaps to get to the platform. Oh, so actually I can rage. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
NOSHIR: And then dash, correct? 
BRENNAN: Yes, you can, yep. 
NOSHIR: But would that allow me to get onto the platform? 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Give me athletics with advantage as you go into a rage. 
NOSHIR: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Realizing I let him out of the embrace of the wings. 
NOSHIR: So two. 
BRENNAN: You can roll twice and take the better of the rolls. 
NOSHIR: Oh, yeah. Natural 20. (laughter) 
BRENNAN: Emissary. Your chest (explosions). Blue light glowing within. You surge forward, rushing across the platform. Your chained axes, your scales (whooshing) up. Alighting on top, you pull yourself up and on a nat 20, you are standing in the midst of this platform with your action. 
NOSHIR: The ward is behind that construct? 
BRENNAN: This is the last ward that needs to go down. You can, if you wish, ready an action to be prepared to act in the moment that that last ward goes down. 
NOSHIR: The stones that encase my form have now whirled to a frightening speed and it's generating heat. The ice that forms, the core of my shape, my face has almost started to melt inward. We're starting to see what looks like his face receding into a hood as he readies his action and draws the axes back. If that space clears, he's going for it. 
BRENNAN: (anticipatory stance) The light on top of this platform is so brilliant, pulsing that rune, the same rune on your ax, but drawn by the hand of a goddess herself. Refusal, abjurance, denial. No. You ready your action. The creature here looks, sees ruin, and fuses itself to that spot, looking out at the last combatant, doing what it has been instructed and programmed to do. It readies an action to strike any that come near that final ward. Emhira, that is your turn. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
TALIESIN: One way or another. 
LAURA: Okay. (buzzes lips) I can just do any 9th-level spell. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
LAURA: Well, let's just see if this works. (laughs) 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
LAURA: That guy's standing over it? 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
LAURA: (exhales) 
ABUBAKAR: Is it any 9th-level or is it just cleric? Cleric or domain? 
BRENNAN: Cleric or your domains that you grant, that your god can grant. 
NICK: So, like magic. 
LAURA: Oh. 
ABUBAKAR: Oh, wow. So I could just do anything? 
NICK: Anything in the, anything that a cleric of the magic domain could cast, is I think what you're saying. 
BRENNAN: Yes, correct. 
LAURA: Jesus Christ. Hold on. 
BRENNAN: So much power. 
TALIESIN: That's one thing I don't miss about playing spellcasters, is staring at that wall of text going, I don't know. 
LAURA: Yeah. I mean, help me. What's the best, (slice)? I could do Meteor Storm. (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Eh, that seems-- 
LAURA: It seems like overkill. I'm just going to try to Eldritch Blast the guy. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. The automaton on top of it? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. Do you have a-- Yeah, give me your attacks. Give me four attacks. 
LAURA: So the first one is I'm-- God, there's so many things to add now. 
BRENNAN: I know, you're good. 
LAURA: I just add-- What am I adding to this? 
BRENNAN: Your normal attack and then you double it at the end. 
LAURA: Oh, so 16 plus 11 times two. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
LAURA: So that hits him? 
BRENNAN: Hits, absolutely. Go ahead and roll the next one. 
LAURA: But first I want to hit him with just the one. 
BRENNAN: Okay, great. Go ahead and roll damage. 
LAURA: So that's 1d10, I think? 
BRENNAN: Uh-huh. 
LAURA: I went away from my thing so I could look at all the spells. Ah! My character sheet! 
BRENNAN: 1d10 I believe, plus your charisma bonus as well. 
LAURA: Goodbye. 
BRENNAN: Goodbye. 
LAURA: I could have taken that, but I'm not going to. Oh, it's the same thing. Hold on, hold on. Come back, Emhira. 
BRENNAN: (laughs) 
LAURA: I rolled a six times 10. 
BRENNAN: 60. 
LAURA: Plus a bunch of other shit. 
BRENNAN: Oh, but you rolled a six on the die? 
LAURA: On the die. 
BRENNAN: So plus five is 11, that's 110. 
LAURA: Okay. Then I'm going to pull him off of the thing. 
BRENNAN: (forceful pull) Gone. 
LAURA: Great. Then I'm going to use my next ones to hit the ward. 
BRENNAN: Go ahead and roll your next attack roll. 
LAURA: So that's 13 plus 11 times two. 
BRENNAN: Go ahead and roll your damage. 
LAURA: The same thing, six plus whatever. 
NOSHIR: 110. (laughs) 
LAURA: 110 damage. 
ABUBAKAR: It's just knocked now. 
BRENNAN: As the ward shatters, the seventh ward, go ahead and read that. 
LAURA: "Divine Vigor. You regain all limited use class features at the beginning of your turn. You're immune to exhaustion. After calculating all bonuses, double your speed. You regain all your legendary--" No, "You regain legendary actions, three per round." 
BRENNAN: You all have legendary actions. 
ABUBAKAR: What?! 
BRENNAN: At the end of your enemy's turns, you may do what they've been doing the whole time. You're not the heroes, you're NPCs, you're the gods. You have legendary actions, legendary resistances. The time of heroes is over. Go ahead and pass these out. 
TALIESIN: What do we want to do with her up there? 
BRENNAN: As you do that, first of all, Emissary, what do you do? 
NOSHIR: I'm scared. 
TALIESIN: Me too. 
NOSHIR: He draws his arms back. The Scales of Justice fall from his hands and hang there. For a moment we see the silhouette of the Scales of Justice. And he lets fly. 
BRENNAN: (massive attack) Thundering down, down, down, down through the column. Blue light, (explosion). In the last moment of this ward, a power that Cassida could not imagine disanimates the Factorum. (massive explosion) A blast of energy. Time begins to slow. As it slows, we see, (cracking) reaching through, your Divine Vigor brought to you, your mortal selves are being rent asunder in this moment. Your full godhood is now completely passable to Aeor. It can arrive here in this moment, in this time. All you need to do is tell me that you are shedding your form. As this happens, there is only one mortal left here, Selena, the archmage in this moment as this begins to disanimate. SILAHA-- Or no. We can dispense. Wildmother, Arch Heart, Everlight, Emissary Of the Law Bearer, Dawnfather, Matron Of Ravens. The glass emblem in your hand. Your godhood is here. You can shatter this cage of one of your siblings with but a thought if you so wish. 
ABUBAKAR: I keep thinking of the failsafe. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ABUBAKAR: So, I will give it to the Wildmother. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ABUBAKAR: Look to Selena, and I think I'm going to embrace her. 
BRENNAN: You embrace her. Her wish echoes out as you feel the whirring of this knowledge in your heart. You can feel the reverberations of her wish. "Everyone, everyone, all of the mortal wizards of Aeor, I give to you now, our last hope. I give to you our last hope. Flee, run. Run if you can. Find a way out." Wildmother, you see one of your siblings caged in here. Do you wish to release them? 
TALIESIN: Who is it? Do I know or can I not tell? Can I not feel? 
LAURA: I don't think it's a good one if my little impy knows. (laughs) But I don't know. 
BRENNAN: You feel not afraid, and this is not one of the terrible ones, you don't think. 
TALIESIN: The sins for family. I release it. 
BRENNAN: (breaking free) "(gasps)" Arcadia appears before you. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: "(gasps) Where is he?" 
LAURA: Oh no! 
TALIESIN: We lost him. 
ASHLEY: You fucking called it. 
LAURA: Oh no! 
TALIESIN: We lost him. 
BRENNAN: You watch as suddenly (godly transformation) her godhood returns to her in this moment, and the Knowing Mistress stands before you. You-- We-- 
LAURA: Fuck. 
BRENNAN: In this moment Selena does nothing else. We are going to-- Actually, we're going to continue through initiative order. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
BRENNAN: As we do so, Asha, you release her and standing here in this place, The Emissary pulsing with light, you know that several things are about to happen in short order. Emissary dispelling. This is about to release an unimaginable amount of energy in a moment. Arcadia has just arrived back. There is suddenly confusion in this moment of triumph. I'm going to go and ask everyone here to tell me what their action would be in this moment, watching as Arcadia appears, Selena collapses into the Arch Heart's arms, still feeling the power of her wish. She keeps saying, "Everyone, everyone, everyone." Arcadia says, "Where is he?" Trist, what are you going to do? Or sorry, Everlight. You still cling to your mortal form. It's still here. You can hold onto it for a second longer, but it is going to rend asunder in but a few moments. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
BRENNAN: What do you do? 
ASHLEY: I'm going to take out my sending stone. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to whisper into it: I love you and I'm sorry. I'm going to load it into the slingshot and try to let it go to try to go find my family. 
BRENNAN: Across an ocean, in the land of Gwessar, a bloodied werebear and a burnt dryad fight side by side with the champion of the Matron of Ravens, surrounded by devils who have come here to destroy this place. They bring as many as they can from Hawk's Hill with them. A massive fiend. "We do love to destroy her followers most of all." Stands over two small half-firbolg children. As the fiend raises a wicked blade, from across an ocean, a brilliant light shines like a star lit on the horizon. Stone from a slingshot. (high speed impact) The fiend's head is destroyed. There is no chance for redemption here. As the light glows, Topher steps forward, picks up the stone, and holds its partner, knowing that he will never speak to his mother in this world again. 
LAURA: (sobs) 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
BRENNAN: Haylie puts a hand on his shoulder as the devils come, knowing that his slingshot just saved them and that it's okay to tell a little lie. Haylie looks up at the fiends approaching in waves. Haylie looks up at the fiends approaching in waves. Purvan, "(pants)," Galdric soaked in blood. Haylie and Topher both look, holding the stones. "I love you double, triple infinity." And both of them rise and glow and light pours forth from them and they move towards the army of fiends. (light expanding) A new dawn comes. Devils peel back as the blood of the divine wends its way across Gwessar. A stone in hand. Hope is not yet lost. "I love you, Mom." (energy exploding) The Calamity is not over, but its final chapter has begun. We return to this space in this time as Arcadia looks and screams, looks at you, Trist, as you have just done that, and goes, "Cassida." We are going to move. 
NICK: Can we take legendary actions whenever we want? 
BRENNAN: Whenever you want. Yeah. 
NICK: I will take a legendary action. My speed is doubled. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
NICK: So that's 40 to 80. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
NICK: So I will move 80 feet. 
BRENNAN: Back. As you do, you notice and see that Tishar and Zaharzht are gone. 
LAURA: Can I pull out the vial? 
BRENNAN: Yes, you can. 
LAURA: I bamf it out. 
BRENNAN: (imp snorting) 
LAURA: Where is he? 
BRENNAN: "Oh! He's with the spider." You-- I'm going to say that we move from this place. As The Emissary is pulsing and glowing, you rush from here as quickly as you can. Who is going to remain in this chamber to witness the destruction of this machine, and who is going to rush with Ayden, with the Dawnfather? 
ABUBAKAR: So am I right in thinking that if this thing happens right now, in my form right now. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: My god still exists. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
ABUBAKAR: So I think I'm just going to then hold. I'm going to cast, because I'm looking here and I'm like, I'm going to cast a Gate-- 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: -- to the center as a legendary action, which is the 9th-level spell of a cleric. Right? 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
ABUBAKAR: This could be basically anyone can get out, whoever's up top here if they want to run out or whatever if they want to. But I'm going to stay here in this form. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
ABUBAKAR: With-- 
BRENNAN: Selena. 
ABUBAKAR: -- Selena. Selena. 
BRENNAN: She heaves with sobs in your chest as you open this gate. You are remaining in the chamber, The Emissary remaining in the chamber. Wildmother. 
TALIESIN: I turn to The Emissary. You were right, and there's still work to be done. Well done. No half measures. Kiss them on the forehead and I speed at lightning speed towards whatever the fuck is happening out there. 
BRENNAN: Dawnfather and Wildmother. Matron Of Ravens. Are you remaining in this chamber with The Emissary and the Arch Heart or are you following out to whatever they have discovered? 
LAURA: I'm going to follow. I'm going to follow. 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. You follow Trist. 
ASHLEY: So The Emissary is here alone? 
BRENNAN: The Emissary is with the Arch Heart. They are both here. You, with your incredible divine senses, can no longer hear Cassida. You don't hear her. You should be able to hear her with your divine senses. You cannot hear-- 
LAURA: Can I feel the thread that I had with her? 
BRENNAN: With her? 
LAURA: I wanted to feel if-- 
BRENNAN: You cannot. You cannot feel the thread with her. 
NOSHIR: Can I turn to her real quick? 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
NOSHIR: You cannot heal everything, but you can always try. 
ASHLEY: I am going to reach out and, knowing that The Emissary is scared, at least in these final moments, I hope that they feel peace. I'm going to cast Calm Emotions, and go. 
BRENNAN: You-- Yes. 
ABUBAKAR: Sorry. Arcadia's still here, isn't she? 
BRENNAN: Yes, Arcadia's here with you. 
ABUBAKAR: So I'm, just as a quick one. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ABUBAKAR: As this is all happening, I'm going to telepathically tell her the poem. 
BRENNAN: You begin to recite the poem, the thing that now resides within your chest. Light fills the chamber. Time has come to almost a standstill. You are effectively all in a divine Time Stop right now in this moment before what is to come. You arrive quickly. The scroll banks. Cassida, erasing the information. You all arrive. Dawnfather, Everlight, Wildmother, Matron of Ravens. The thread has gone cold. You rush into the space. You do not see Umleta anywhere, Spider Queen. You see on the ground, desiccated, gaunt, bloody, her ribcage cracked open and destroyed is Cassida. Standing over her is Amaris, your husband. 
ASHLEY: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: "You look shocked." 
LAURA: (gasps) 
BRENNAN: "I always look like the most beautiful person anyone has ever seen." The Lord of the Hells, who has been wearing Arcadia's form for some time-- 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
BRENNAN: -- steps out. "I am going to tell you something now. Before she died, she renounced you. (chef's kiss) It's even better than killing a follower." He smiles with a scroll and calls out, "Turn it on them, now!" You see he holds the keys to the Factorum Malleus in his hands. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to Guiding Bolt him. 
BRENNAN: We're going to roll initiative right now. 
TALIESIN: I'm in that. 
ABUBAKAR: (laughs) 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 
ABUBAKAR: Wow! 
TALIESIN: I'm fucking in it. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 
BRENNAN: With-- 
LAURA: (groans) 
BRENNAN: -- I'm going to let you know right now. Yeah, go ahead and roll. 
TALIESIN: Did not roll-- 
ASHLEY: Damn. 
NICK: I did not roll a double digit number for an initiative as this character. 
LAURA: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Did anybody here beat a 16? What did you get? 
ASHLEY: 18. 
BRENNAN: You act first. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
BRENNAN: Guiding Bolt. 
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to do Guiding Bolt at 9th-level. 
BRENNAN: Yeah, why not? 
ASHLEY: That is going to be, okay, well, let me roll to see if it works. Okay, so-- Do we double? Okay. Hang on. 
BRENNAN: Yeah. All your bonuses and then double. 
LAURA: So many things! 
BRENNAN: So many things. 
NOSHIR: Plus five then goes to you still? 
NICK: Only to saves. 
NOSHIR: I got it. 
ASHLEY: Okay. I'm so sorry. 51. Does that make sense? 
BRENNAN: Hell yeah. I'm going to ask you something right now, Everlight. The Lord of the Hells, the horns curl back from his head, delighted at the chance to do this, what you have always done. Leans forward with his chin out as if to say, "Give me your best shot." He holds the scroll in his hand. Where do you aim? 
ABUBAKAR: Ooh. 
ASHLEY: I aim at the scroll. 
BRENNAN: Go ahead and roll damage. 
ASHLEY: How many d6 is that? Because I'm multiclassing, I can't pull up the 9th-level. 
ABUBAKAR: So, it's 4d6, right? All natural, right? Then it's you add 1d6 above. 
BRENNAN: So, that's going to be eight. That's going to be 12d6. 
ASHLEY: 12d6, okay. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, you know. 
LAURA: (grunts) Times 10? 
BRENNAN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: All right, so we got 16, 20, 22, 23. Nice. Okay. All right, help me with math. 23 plus 12. 
BRENNAN: 35. 
ASHLEY: 35. 41, 42, 50. 
ABUBAKAR: That's 500. 
BRENNAN: 500 damage to the scroll. (whooshes) The light connects. The Lord of the Hells attempts to duck out of the way. "(gasps) No!" The light hits, and in this chamber, The Emissary's work is done. You begin to come out of Time Stop. (booms) Emissary, you are filled with light. Begin to disanimate. (whooshes) The Knowing Mistress looks at you. Arch Heart looks at Selena. The blast is too much. Selena is going to be rent asunder. (Selena) "Everyone, everyone, everyone." Every wizard of flesh and blood within Aeor is seeded by her Wish with the knowledge of how to create the Factorum Malleus. With her Wish does she say, "Run. Save this knowledge." The knowledge of the weapon touches every corner of this city. As The Emissary disanimates, the Knowing Mistress looks at you, Arch Heart. As that final blast of energy is coming, (sighs) you can allow it to do its terrible work, or you can attempt to redirect it and do something else with it, but you know in this moment what Selena's final wish was. 
ABUBAKAR: I'm going to redirect it. 
BRENNAN: Where are you going to redirect it? 
ABUBAKAR: This energy? 
BRENNAN: Yeah. Coursing up from underneath The Emissary, the weapon. All of it. 
ABUBAKAR: To the city. 
LAURA: Oh my god, it's the thing. 
BRENNAN: (reverberating whooshes) Emissary, you are destroyed. (booms) Arch Heart, you have Selena, the Knowing Mistress, and the entire Genesis Ward (booms) buckles up. Buildings thrown into the sky. (explosions) Above you, the people of Aeor who are left witness a god whose feet touch the bottom of the ocean and whose head scrapes the top of the sky call down lightning. (crackles) The Genesis Ward is cored out, emptied, (sucking whooshes) and every piece of brumestone in the city (fingers snap) disenchants. (gasping puffs) The city lurches horrifyingly to one side. Little arcane engines trying and failing to stop the inevitable, as the city-state of Aeor lists towards a frozen island. as the city-state of Aeor lists towards a frozen island. Land of Eiselcross. (whooshes) (cascading booms) As the city descends. All of you feel in this moment too much power. The energy redirects to the city and all of your forms are rent asunder. Emissary, you're standing. You're standing in a dark place with a very enormous figure. A goddess with a white mask and raven feathers. Are you still scared? 
NOSHIR: It's so dark, but I know you. Are you here to take me to Mama? 
LAURA: I take my mask off and my size shrinks to where I'm the same size as Emissary. You did well, child, and there will be light. 
NOSHIR: I want to go home now. 
LAURA: I pull his soul to me and send it on its way to Mother. 
NOSHIR: Find those who are worthy and take them home. 
LAURA: I hear those words, and in the final moment before the city crashes, the small child in that hospital bed is not there anymore. 
BRENNAN: Last moments. Arcadia abandons her mortal form. "Why did you try to fight us?" (whooshes) Arch Heart, nearest to the center of the blast, with Selena being kept safe as you redirect the energy to the city. She's still blinded, still in your arms, and she hears the horror, realizing that her Wish put the thing that you were hellbent on destroying everywhere in her city. Shaking, she can feel the presence of the gate nearby. Do you say anything to her in this moment? 
ABUBAKAR: I'd like you to know something. I have never been so proud of something as much as I have been of you. You've created something so beautiful, so pure. A weapon of destruction, yet preservation. You asked for the light. Then go, and I'll push her through the gate. 
BRENNAN: (whooshes) She's gone. As the Arch Heart sheds his mortal form and returns to full godhood, what does he feel? 
ABUBAKAR: Peace. Slightly giddy. 
BRENNAN: The field erupts out. Waiting just outside the Factorum, the mortal forms of the Spider Queen, the Crawling King, and the Ruiner, waiting for their chance to bend this weapon against all of you are instead destroyed, as the energy redirects towards them. (crackling gasps) It arrives at the bank of scrolls, Cassida's body. Who abandons their mortal form as it reaches the four of you? What do you feel in this final moment of having known a mortal life? 
TALIESIN: I am going to hold this to the very end. I return to what I am and become a wolf, a tired gray wolf, and I head to you and I just nuzzle and collapse. 
LAURA: I shed the mortal form, and as I do, there's comfort in putting that mask that has no emotion back on my face. We are children in those forms. We know so much. And so little. 
NICK: Ayden looks at you. I didn't want Father to be right. (tearily) I wanted to save them. 
ASHLEY: I did, too. 
NICK: He'll look at his fallen brother. Why must it always be like this?						 
BRENNAN: "Don't come to me with your tears. Don't come to me with your tears. What choices have I ever made? I wanted us to be together, and you chose them. Even now, you think you're a frightened little boy. You're a scrap of skin. You're as much a mask as that bone white thing clinging to her face. You're a glove that bigger hands than you can imagine is wearing. You had your chance for us to be family and now we're something else. I hate you and I always will, forever, until the stars twinkle out of the sky, until nothing is left but darkness. I will hate you forever." 
NICK: Ayden's head explodes with light. Do not lie to me. As he assumes his true form. 
BRENNAN: The Lord of Hells, abjured mortal form destroyed. As you command him not to lie, he is gone. (whooshing away) 
TALIESIN: Is Zaharzht still here or no? 
BRENNAN: In the skies overhead, you see this being that, like the coughing grandfather from Hawk's Hill, is in too much pain to let go. "(gnarled snorts)" As the energy strips the shell of this massive, frightening creature away, "(growling snorts)." 
TALIESIN: The wolf approaches. 
BRENNAN: "What?" 
TALIESIN: I miss you so much. 
BRENNAN: "You found this place. You found it, and you can't be in it without hurting. So you did this to me, didn't you?" 
TALIESIN: I did. And (sighs) I will never not be sorry. I go and I turn into the human form and I go for an embrace. 
BRENNAN: You embrace a creature that claws and bites and attacks and wounds, but all of the blood that has ever flowed in this world is yours. 
TALIESIN: I let-- This is how I'm going to lose my mortal form. I sit and feel the hooks and the barbs claw and bend, and I bleed. Blood flows, and then juices of fruit and honey and sap and everything that is bounty. It's the only gift I can give my poor brother who I've ruined. 
BRENNAN: "(snorts)" You are killed and he is brought back to life and then dies and you are reborn. Sap and honey, blood and bone over and over and over again (dissipating) until the mortal form drifts away. Everlight. You're the last one left. 
ASHLEY: Are you gone? 
LAURA: I'm big. 
BRENNAN: I believe the Matron and the Dawnfather have assumed their godly forms. You are looking up at the sky through a hole in this world. Floors and floors of arcane knowledge and equipment, crumbling ruins of the Factorum Malleus, the knowledge of it set on a course to die. You will scrub this danger to you from the world. It has already been done. But you stand here and see the body of Cassida before you. You think back to the hospital, Father Milo left the room and Arcadia didn't. She heard what Cassida said. You think, how did that celestial hand the Knowing Mistress over to those archmagi? You look at the body of Cassida, another follower of yours destroyed by the Lord of the Hells, by the Betrayers. destroyed by the Lord of the Hells, by the Betrayers. He said that she renounced you before the end. Do you think that's true? 
ASHLEY: It doesn't matter. I'll go over to her body and make her whole again. I know I won't bring her back. 
BRENNAN: You make her whole, a thread goes from her to the Matron. Her soul is not so far gone. 
ASHLEY: I just move her hair. I'm so sorry. I just look to the Dawnfather and the Matron. That didn't feel right. 
LAURA: Can I go over to her and envelop her? 
BRENNAN: Dark-- 
ASHLEY: I just-- I'm so grateful for the embrace. 
BRENNAN: Dark wings up above, storms, thundering, winds so fast that none can escape and yet, a tinge of gray in the dark storm. The sun is rising past the clouds at the edge of the horizon, as it must. 
ASHLEY: My sister, let's go home. 
BRENNAN: Cassida is left in repose. The knowledge dies with her. Hallis, her son, he was sent from here. Was he sent somewhere in the world of Exandria or was he sent somewhere far beyond that? 
LAURA: He was sent to Exandria. That was my-- 
BRENNAN: Everlight. How long do you stay in that embrace of the Matron before you let go? 
ASHLEY: For a long time, and I finally let go of this mortal form. 
BRENNAN: The last avatar unravels. You held on for as long as you could. High above the clouds, the sun rises. Under the storms, crawling things of pain and suffering, dark caves of spiders. Ruination and destruction follow the fleeing Lord of Hells, ready to wage war anew. A war that is the greatest warmth they will ever know. Above the clouds, the sun begins to rise as you all ascend and watch the roiling of the Stormlord pushing the city, speeding up. Let none survive this crash. Far above, you are joined by your sister, who appears in this moment as your form passes, Wildmother, and you appear here above the clouds. 
LAURA: Is it possible to, before we leave this room-- 
BRENNAN: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: I don't know a spell, but is there some sort of spell that can cast a like a bubble of protection? Like a dome to protect the body of Cassida. 
BRENNAN: Yes. 
LAURA: So she's not damaged when we crash. 
BRENNAN: Yes. She will be preserved. The Lawbearer arrives. The Knowing Mistress stands with you. She looks. "The Lord of Hells will not be long gone. Once the city crashes, they will gather the others and they will know we are here. We should not dawdle long." 
NICK: We had to try. 
ASHLEY: I know. I know. 
NICK: Hope is a painful thing. 
BRENNAN: The Knowing Mistress looks to the Lawbearer. "Why didn't you, at the last minute, why didn't you come?" 
NOSHIR: For love. If something were to happen to her, I could not break my own rules to save her. And so I gave up my son. Thank you for taking care of him. 
LAURA: He was of pure heart. 
NICK: Thank you, sister. 
TALIESIN: Sister. 
LAURA: Always. 
ASHLEY: You carry a weight much heavier than all of us. I don't know why you do it. 
LAURA: It is the path I chose. 
BRENNAN: The city vanishes and all of you feel a noise, a sound, a pulse, impact, ruin. And with a final thud that ripples over the vast ocean waves, Aeor is brought low, smote by divine will against the face of Exandria. The Knowing Mistress looks to you, Lawbearer. "You would not have us dwell here." 
NOSHIR: Why are your children bound by rules that you will not follow? We have broken this place. 
BRENNAN: "I agree." 
ASHLEY: As do I. 
TALIESIN: We have. Now what? 
BRENNAN: "There is a way. Our efforts have been half measures. We seek to do as we did before, not to kill our kin who oppose us, to place them in realms of their own design that they craft into some torture, perhaps to torment us. I do not know. It will not last unless we close the door behind us." 
LAURA: This is the only home I've ever known. 
TALIESIN: This was ours. We-- No. No. 
NOSHIR: Look how far they came, my love. They almost took it from us by force. 
TALIESIN: I don't want to go. 
LAURA: If we do this, it protects them from the others as well. 
NICK: We protect them. 
NOSHIR: Do we? Look at what you've wrought, Dawnfather. 
LAURA: I have ushered many souls this day. 
NOSHIR: We killed them for being good. My heart is tired. 
BRENNAN: "There is much to be done. We must not tarry or dawdle. Each and every Betrayer need be sealed away before we even consider what is to become of us. But consider it, we must. If not today, then when some new sun rises. I saw that stone that streaked across the sky. Are you ready to fight again?" 
ASHLEY: If it must be, yes. 
BRENNAN: "I will think on what we have learned here. There are ways. We will address this Calamity. I believe that we can end it. We must try and be willing to do whatever it takes. Don't tarry long, my siblings." (fades) She vanishes. I would ask you to tell me how each of you leave this place. 
TALIESIN: I walk up to my wife. I take her hands. I'm not angry. Not even a little. 
NOSHIR: I couldn't. 
TALIESIN: I couldn't have if you had been there. I couldn't have been that person. It was too much. 
NOSHIR: A forest with rules. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. A perfect tree. 
NOSHIR: Please tell me all about my son. 
TALIESIN: (sighs) I take your hand and we walk, and I tell you every moment of that brave child. 
BRENNAN: The Wildmother and Lawbearer depart. Who is next to leave? 
ASHLEY: I'm going to walk up to the Matron. Please give them more time here. If they should come to see you a little too early, send them back. 
LAURA: I cannot do that, not even for you, sister. But... I look up and there are threads, golden threads, above your head, infinite, and I point at two that are right next to each other and bring them low, shining very strong. They will do great things. Then you will see them again. 
ASHLEY: We talk about how-- We talk about time a lot, and how their lives are just (snaps) a blip in ours. But having been here, But having been here, it's not about the length of time in a life, it's about how it's spent. And I would do it all over again. I love you all. 
LAURA: We sacrifice much in these mortal forms, but I believe it was worth it. 
NOSHIR: Was it? 
LAURA: As a former mortal, yes, it was. 
NOSHIR: I hope you're right, sister. 
BRENNAN: Everlight, you move from this place. Matron, do you follow behind? 
LAURA: Yes, but before I do, I'm going to put my hand on your shoulder. You're full of surprises. Then I'll go. 
BRENNAN: In the skies over the sea, the Arch Heart and the Dawnfather stand. The sun is fully risen. It's glorious. 
ABUBAKAR: It's beautiful. 
NICK: Thank you. 
ABUBAKAR: You know, in my heart, I knew this was all going to happen. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ABUBAKAR: I mean, they're our children after all. Got to go out there, do their own thing. It's what we did. 
NICK: Not to see them. Not to stand by their side. Not to be there day after day. 
ABUBAKAR: Yeah. Yeah. But that's what makes it so great. It makes those moments really last. Besides, we'll always be there in some way, shape, or form, the same way that they will always be with us. Like a scar. With that, I'm going to take a strand of my hair, twirl it in my finger, and throw it. We'll always be here. (snaps) And then book. 
BRENNAN: Dawnfather, you stand amongst the clouds as the sun rises. This world, this beautiful world. Could you really bear to say goodbye? 
NICK: I walk to the edge of the continent, where this island lays that now contains the crumbles of this once mighty city. Then the Dawnfather touches the earth and the water. He does not want to leave. But if his family is set on it, he cannot lose more. As he kneels there on the edge overlooking the water and the sun, I think he hears in his heart: Ayden. It's okay, Father. I think a final tear, a final part of Ayden that hoped falls into the sea. And he stands resolute, not quite sure, but with his family, a distance that he does not know how to traverse ahead of him. He'll gaze up at the sun and shimmer in its light and vanish. 
BRENNAN: When first the gods came to Exandria, they came from a realm of eternal possibility, and their first and greatest sacrifice was to become real. Now, reflected in that first tragedy, that first Calamity, is a reflection. In short, brief life can even the infinite change, realize, recognize, commit to something new, singular. To move forward on the paths of destiny and fate, changed. Beautiful is the dawn. We do not see the gods. We only see light. 
MATT: Light. Endless light of fractured divine memory captured in a long lost relic. Bits of cracked and ruined history realized once again. As the light fades here in this dark subterranean ruin, the ruination of a once great and terrifying city, these memories resurface once more. Here, in this glistening arcane sphere, in the hands of a man born in the lingering fires of what the gods have done. Here, the light has echoes. Here, who knows the danger these ripples might have. We'll pick up there next time with Bells Hells. (laughs softly) 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
MATT: Thank you all so much for joining us, and is it Thursday yet? 
ASHLEY: (sighing) Oh! 
MATT: Good night.

Cooldown[]
LAURA: Okay.
ASHLEY: Hi, Matt.
MATT: Oh, hi, guys. Brennan, come back here.
LAURA: Oh, my god. (applause for Brennan)
BRENNAN: So many dragons.
MATT: That's okay.
LAURA: Oh, my god.
BRENNAN: Hey, gang. What a gift. Thank you all very, very much. 
MATT: I'll just horse stance here. 
BRENNAN: Let's get another freaking--
MATT: I'll grab a chair.
ASHLEY: Holy schmoly.
ABUBAKAR: I'm so emotional. I'm finished!
BRENNAN: There's not necessarily a celebratory...
ASHLEY: No.
TALIESIN: No.
MATT: It's not a story with happy feelings.
ABUBAKAR: I don't think I'm ever going to play D&D again. (laughter) That's it. I'm done.
ASHLEY: All done.
ABUBAKAR: I've peaked. That's it.
ASHLEY: That was it.
LAURA: Talk about overwhelming power...
ASHLEY: Geeze Louise.
BRENNAN: I'm going to do a little check in. Is everybody okay? Does anyone need...?
LAURA: Yes.
BRENNAN: I saw a few-- multiple people crying. There were some tears.
TALIESIN: Real bad.
BRENNAN: I really appreciate how much everyone went ham. This was a very challenging story.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
BRENNAN: I don't think you can-- I feel like, especially when you're playing deep in the lore of Exandria, profound timeline but also meaning and significance. It's all the weight of these moments that happened in a certain way, and these moments that meant a tremendous amount, these gods mean a tremendous amount to everybody, and I think that there is a huge accomplishment on the part of all of you. I had the best seat in the fucking house to watch a feat of performance and gameplay and breathtaking trust and vulnerability. This job fucking rules, man. It was really wonderful to watch, because I feel like to play characters that you have deep empathy for and show them as-- I thought you all threaded the needle of humanizing the fundamentally inhuman of being eternal things that have a perspective we can't understand, but you can understand, and you hate that you can understand but you also hate the things you can't understand, and it's all-- I don't know. It was phenomenal.
LAURA: Brrrrr. What a crazy, crazy feeling, just to say, during the combat, of-- as we gained those divine abilities--
BRENNAN: Yeah.
LAURA: To watch all of us become giddy with power.
BRENNAN: Yes.
LAURA: And what that really--
NICK: I cast that Sunburst, and then felt horrible.
LAURA: Yeah. Because in that moment, you're like, "These-- they're so easy now! Pew pew pew! I'm just going to kill them all!" And then it's like, "I just killed them all."
ASHLEY and ABUBAKAR: Yeah.
ABUBAKAR: That's it.
BRENNAN: I talked to Matt a little bit about that. So for everyone who's watching, obviously those powers are silly.
MATT: Yeah.
BRENNAN: But the point of that is, the gods of Exandria are not supposed to be statblocks. They're supposed to be incalculably infinite. So even as you're breaking the wards, it's like these powers are even still fractional selves of the deities, right? It's supposed to be totally fucking infinite, and I specifically, when I was building the encounter out, I was like, "Okay, the automata are Challenge Rating 25, and there's three fucking dragons that all have legendary actions, and there's a bunch of--" The challenge rating is fabricated, it's made up--
MATT: It's jazz at a certain point.
BRENNAN: It's just jazz. But truly, in that first hour and a half, I was like, "I need people to be sweating blood or this is going to feel silly.
ALL: Yeah.
LAURA: We were. We were there.
NICK: Moments before we got all three of those wards down--
BRENNAN: By the way, can we have a little-- (applause)
NICK: Ayden was at 14 hit points.
BRENNAN: Yeah.
NICK: And you [Noshir] were at, I think, under 50.
NOSHIR: Yeah, 43 or 42.
LAURA: You guys would have been out. Until we broke the thing.
MATT: I was backstage, and Dani who was watching with headphones on, goes, "Matt, the gods can't lose. It's in the history." I'm like, "We got plans."
BRENNAN: You can notice, too, there were a couple of things that sometimes I'm sure got lost in the shuffle. The Betrayers were specifically not helping that much.
MATT: Yeah.
BRENNAN: They were hanging back--
ASHLEY: Were they going to use it on us? Was that the--
BRENNAN: They were going to use it on you. And there was that final thing of the Guiding Bolt destroying the scroll that the Lord of the Hells had gotten, of like--
NICK: I'm so glad it was the Everlight that did that.
ABUBAKAR: Yeah.
LAURA: I know.
BRENNAN: It got him.
ASHLEY: So it did get destroyed, the scroll--
LAURA: The scroll got destroyed.
BRENNAN: Yeah, destroyed the scroll, the knowledge of the Factorum was there. Because the idea was that the Betrayers were like, "What, there's a weapon that kills gods? We're not throwing that away. What the fuck are you talking about? Are you crazy?" But within those divine powers, I specifically wanted to make it impossible-- you know, every one of the archmages was like 9th level spell slots, 17th to 20th level. And there was a lot of them, right?
TALIESIN: There was like five Wishes got thrown?
BRENNAN: Five Wishes... you each tanked two Wishes to the chest.
TALIESIN: Best monk ever. Right there, let me tell you.
ABUBAKAR: Having that first Wish hit you first, and you're like, "Oh, my god." Having that re-roll was wild, saving my life. I was thinking to myself, "Oh my god." Suddenly, you knock these things down, you get five of them, you're like, "Eh. What else you got?" That was so crazy. As a player, and even, I can imagine, as an audience member, the idea of, "Oh, you're just playing god, so it's just going to be an easy game." But that first round was brutal. The odds were definitely not in our favor. Because we were literally just a few level 20s against three dragons.
BRENNAN: Yes. It was three dragons, two CR 25 automata constructs, it was a bunch of demons and--
TALIESIN: Those three guys down there, and--
NICK: I was at under half hit points before I even got on the board. (laughter)
BRENNAN: I got to say, dude, by the way, man, the fucking buffs from Ayden-- As a support character, dude, cleaned up, man. Fucking cleaned up.
NICK: (to Noshir) You almost killed me just tanking your hits.
NOSHIR: Sorry!
ABUBAKAR: But I think it was beautiful, and I want to say, seriously, kudos to you, man. You masterfully crafted us through this world, and it was through what you have conjured and the things that you put us through, that allowed us to play these characters with empathy, with humanity. You could almost see us reflected in the characters that we met, and I think that was masterfully done from you. You really helped us through.
BRENNAN: Oh, thank you.
ABUBAKAR: Absolutely beautiful, man.
BRENNAN: Really, I don't envy-- The fun thing is that me and Nick and Noshir and Abu are going to be like, "Wow, what an intense thing." And then Ashley and Taliesin and Laura have to go back to Bells Hells and be like, "And how do you feel about that?"
TALIESIN: I don't know! I don't know! I don't know!
ASHLEY: It's so-- We know what happens.
BRENNAN: Yes.
ASHLEY: We know that the city is destroyed, but it was so interesting playing through something where it felt like I knew what we had to do, but I didn't want to--
LAURA: Hoping you could find a way around it.
ASHLEY: Hoping there could be some other way. The choice felt so heavy.
BRENNAN: Well, the complexities, too, of that last round of combat, where you realize, "Wait, the Lord of the Hells is going to bend the Factorum to his will if it's left operational," and Aeor now-- Selena has sent to all these flesh and blood wizards of the city a seed of the knowledge of the Factorum--
TALIESIN: Once that thing gets out, no one can be left standing.
BRENNAN: Yeah. And again, that's the thing. Unless you make your peace with mortality. And that's the whole thing of what the solar, what Acastriel was saying. Basically going, the fundamental betrayal for his perspective, which, there was a lot of combat, but for him, was, "You guys look at us as a sandbox, and we can't look at ourselves that way. This is a war. I was created to fight devils that are the force of evil, and we're the force of good. And you guys think of each other as family? What do you mean? What do you mean?!" Fundamentally, it's like a cosmological question, of-- for me at least, of do you agree with the gods' perspective? Do you agree with the perspective that fundamentally these eternal forces-- like the Wildmother and the Arch Heart dancing together, or the fucking scene of the Crawling King and the Wildmother--
TALIESIN: There are things I have learned in this game that just blow my fucking mind. It is difficult to contemplate.
BRENNAN: So it's like, how do you regard these forces? Do you have to-- Do you try to attain enlightenment on their terms and understand their inexorability? Or do you do what the solar did or what Selena did or what these mages did, or-- poor Cassida, who died offscreen.
LAURA: Poor Cassida. Oh, that was another thing! Her soul was right there. I'm surprised you guys didn't try to bring her back. But you thought it was time for her to pass?
BRENNAN: Well, she had the knowledge of the Factorum.
LAURA: She had to stay dead.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm not bringing her back.
BRENNAN: She knew she was dead.
LAURA: She knew she was-- she knew what she was doing.
NICK: It was so painful, her last hour of life.
LAURA: Yeah.
NICK: That it just-- I was looking, I was like, "I have Revivify, I have all these things," and I was like, that's the cruelest thing I could do to her.
LAURA: To make her keep living.
ASHLEY: That's what I thought. We'd be like, "You back!"
NICK: She said something like, "Stop teaching me lessons."
BRENNAN: Yeah.
NICK: And I was like--
LAURA: Okay.
NICK: Okay. You're so right.
BRENNAN: That's the thing, the fact that the arch-- It was like the Arch Heart was like, "There are things you cannot possibly understand." And then, in the next scene, the Emissary was like, "Try to understand." And she was like, "Hey. You motherfuckers got to pick." And that idea, too, of-- If you have the gifts, not to get all Inherit the Wind about it--
MATT: No, no. Go.
BRENNAN: You have the gifts that the gods gave to mortals. You expect me not to try to understand?
ASHLEY, LAURA, and ABUBAKAR: Yeah.
LAURA: That's where I found ultimate sympathy for her, as the Matron, because that's exactly what I did.
BRENNAN: Yes. You did. You are proof that a mortal can understand. And I think that there is a big part of that, too, of the gods walking this line, or this boundary of-- it's like someone playing hopscotch a little bit. Of like, "When I am standing here, I am beyond your comprehension. And when I am standing here, the concepts should be very familiar to you. Don't you understand? They're my family. Doesn't that make sense? But you could never understand our family." It's a thing that for a mortal, or in some cases, a celestial, the attitude of like, "Oh, I am in open rebellion. What to you feels so fair--" I don't know, playing the perspective of Acastriel, of that solar being like, yeah, it's the both. It's the one or the other of it. The idea of, "Stay eternal and stay ineffable and stay unknowable, but don't come here and be a person and look like me and care about me if what you're going to do is this." And I feel like we got to the end of the Divergence and seeding that little bit. We talked about that before.
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: I'll definitely say watching that as the Wildmother, there was an awful lot of, "Maybe we don't try to get them to understand in case they do, and they still think we're wrong?" There was a definite-- I don't want them to know.
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Just cause I don't feel like I'm ready to be judged by these people.
ABUBAKAR: Yeah.
BRENNAN: You don't want them to know how much you love each other, even across the Betrayer and Prime divide, or--
TALIESIN: And how different our love for them is-- God, overthinking the Wildmother. It's very much better being loved than loving.
BRENNAN: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Yeah. There's just things that-- you know, didn't want to get into.
BRENNAN: I know.
TALIESIN: Matt's just giving me a "You asshole." It was amazing.
BRENNAN: What do you think, was there any part of that that Ludinus had the remote and was like, pause.
LAURA: "Ooh, wait, this isn't playing the way I thought it would."
TALIESIN: "I've got another angle on this-- hold on!"
LAURA: Ludinus hasn't seen any of this information either?
MATT: He's touched on bits of it.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: He's been deeply running through what bits of scrambled information remain and then look for a seed that could prove his point. And parts of it did. Parts of it also bring up some other interesting questions. So I think it's exactly the complicated wrinkle I was hoping this would be. I-- look. My life is filled with all manner of odd, unexpected joys, but there are few things that I enjoy more than being able to watch other people be masters in crafting from the dissonant threads of my imagination long ago, something that is far more complicated and beautiful than I could ever have hoped it could be. And each and every one of you, thank you so much for coming and bringing your light to this, and making it so incredible. I can't think of any other group I could have trusted to tell this very specifically complicated and nuanced part of Exandrian history. I've always wanted to explore this part but have been scared to, because I didn't know how to do it right. And the timing of this, and the people-- it made sense. I was waiting for this to happen. So thank you all so much.
NICK: Thank you.
BRENNAN: Thank you, man.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
BRENNAN: I love this world. What an incredible honor. And also--dissonant? More like consonant. the threads are not dissonant. The threads fucking rule, man. They're great fucking threads. Incredible threads.
MATT: Well, thank you.
BRENNAN: It was just fucking beautiful, watching you all work. Unbelievable.
LAURA: It was a fun time.
ABUBAKAR: So much trauma. God, so much trauma.
LAURA: A sad fun time.
TALIESIN: It's my favorite kind of fun time.
ASHLEY: Fun sad time. 
TALIESIN: Fun sad time.
BRENNAN: I think that there's a fascinating element here, because obviously as a creative brief, we're playing a story, but it's a story that actually exists in narrative in the midst of a story that is being told. Right? So the ending of this feels very interesting in terms of the ending of a story. Because it feels like it leaves you not with-- there's no rest at the end of this. It is propulsion. It feels like, "Oh my god, this is going to evoke strong feelings and it's going to move action from somebody." Who knows what the fucking Brennan of Exandria is, but if I was-- it's funny, because as a DM, you're in this collaborative story, but you also can't ever lose your own perspective, and I feel like if I'm some Aeorian walking around, and the Stormlord's bringing the lightning down, and people are suddenly lurching 80 feet up in the air and slamming into the ground and the nightmare of it. And some motherfucker comes up to me and calls me their child, I'm going to go, "Buddy... Call me your fucking child one more time. I'll tell you that right now. Call me a child one more fucking time!"
LAURA: I kept saying it to everybody. "Hi, little babies!"
BRENNAN: Little babies. Much like babies, I must destroy you.
MATT: That's the teacher.
BRENNAN: That's the-- (laughs) But you guys-- it was the whole thing. Especially I feel like the people, and Nick and Ashley, the whole time of being like, "There's another way!" Or Cassida being that thing of-- even the moment when she was like, "We can erase it. You don't have to destroy the city." She knew that she was dead even then. She knew even being like, "I'll erase it," she knew that she was dead. Fucked up. Anyway. Thanks for letting me here, man.
MATT: Thank you all. My god.
LAURA: Yay!
MATT: Literally.
BRENNAN: Literally.
MATT: My gods.
BRENNAN: My gods.
NICK: What a pleasure and honor. This table was just insanely talented. It was so cool to watch everybody do their thing.
ASHLEY: It was cool to watch everybody.
BRENNAN: Let's play again. We should do like a shake it off with a bunch of first level people in a tavern having a fight.
MATT: Hell yeah! Yeah, we'll do a Daggerheart one-shot or something. Let's do it. Let's go! Light touch! Light touch! Let it go! Let it go! Fantastic.