List of Transcripts

Contents

1 Pre-Show
2 Part I
3 Break
4 Part II
5 Cooldown


Pre-Show[]
MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. (clamoring) That one. Happy New Year! (cheering) 
ASHLEY: Happy New Year, everyone. 
MATT: 2025 and all that it entails. 
TALIESIN: Uh-oh. 
ASHLEY: ♪ Dear 25 ♪ 
MATT: I brought this up and didn't take a sip. I'm going to sip one. 
TRAVIS: As all good things. 
MATT: There we go. Before we get into our first session of the year, we have some announcements to get through, beginning with our sponsor of the evening, Thorum, makers of unique wedding bands, pendants, and watches. To talk about them, we've got a very special, animal loving guest. From the LA Zoo, please welcome the head zookeeper, Jerry McCallister Sudds. 
SAM: Hello, yes. Wonderful, yes. I am Jerry McCallister Sudds. The animal kingdom is fascinating and beautiful and I have brought some friends from the LA Zoo to meet you all tonight. (excited clamoring) 
MATT: This has to do with Thorum, though, right? 
SAM: Matthew, Matthew, as we say in the zoo keeping biz, hold your equus caballuses. That's horses. Now, our first animal friend is Bandit. Come on, bring out Bandit. (clamoring) 
TRAVIS: There's a real animal! 
SAM: Oh, I'm a professional! I'm a professional! I'm a professional. (laughter) (laughter) 
LIAM: I want this for four hours! 
SAM: Bandit is a Tibetan long-tailed macaque. (laughter) And he hibernates for 10 and a half months per year. Careful, because Bandit has two very sharp thumb claws called scoopers that they use to dig in the plateaus of South Asia. 
LAURA: Oh! 
MATT: That's extremely cute, Sam, but what about our sponsor Thorum? 
SAM: Matthew, it sounds like you've got-- It sounds like you've got ants in your pants, Matthew. Next up, I'd like you to meet Teddy Kennedy. 
ALL: Ooh! 
SAM: Here's Teddy Kennedy. Wonderful, wonderful. Teddy Kennedy is a rare saltwater alligator from the Antongil Bay in Madagascar. They lay 12 eggs at a time in pods called scoopers. I'm pleased to say that Teddy Kennedy is pregnant. (laughter) 
MATT: First off, I really-- I don't think that's an alligator. Second, we really need to know about Thorum. 
SAM: Oh boy, it sounds like curiosity killed the Matt. Am I right? (laughter) All right, all right. Our next animal friend is Thorum. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh! So cute! 
ASHLEY: Oh wow, how pretty! 
SAM: Thorum. Thorum makes unique wedding bands out of everything from meteorite to whiskey barrel. 
MATT: I get it now. 
SAM: And new minimalist watches featuring Hawaiian koa and California redwood and super cute pendant necklaces. Oh, oh, oh, careful, careful! 
ASHLEY: Oh, look at that big boy! 
SAM: I need to give him a treat. 
ASHLEY: Oh, treaty, treat! (laughter) 
SAM: Thorum ships every single thing for free, has over 10,000 five-star reviews, and every purchase includes a free silicone activity band and walnut wood ring box. This one's pregnant. (laughter) The walnut ring box are called-- 
MATT: I'm going to assume it's probably scoopers? 
SAM: Scoopers! That's right, wonderful. Well, whether you need a wedding ring, anniversary ring, or just an awesome ring, head to Thorum.com and use code Critical Role for 20% off everything. Matt, macaque to you. 
ALL: Oh! 
TRAVIS and LAURA: Wow. 
MARISHA: That's a good one. 
LAURA: That was my favorite one. (cheering) 
TRAVIS: That's my favorite sponsor read of 2025. 
MARISHA: The best read of 2025. 
ASHLEY: Way to start off the year! 
MATT: Hell yeah, awesome. 
SAM: I was just playing a character, guys. It's me, it's Sam. 
MATT: Oh shit! 
ASHLEY: Oh my god! 
LAURA: Oh my gosh! You were so knowledgeable. 
MATT: Man of so many talents. 
TRAVIS: Incredible. 
MATT: Thank you, Sam. Travis, you've got an announcement to make. 
TRAVIS: I do, off of that, it's officially 2025. Which means we are kicking off our year-long celebration of our 10th year anniversary of Critical Role! 
MATT: (party horn) 
TRAVIS: 10 years. You guys, that means looking forward to exclusive merch, live shows, conventions. So many conventions and live shows. More content and all sorts of fun surprises to thank you, the Critters, our partners and all the wonderful people who have joined the party along the way. So please, keep your eyes peeled for our 10-year anniversary logo throughout the year as that's how you know something special is coming your way. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
TRAVIS: Honestly, we couldn't be more excited to share this milestone with you, and thank you for everything. It's 10 years in the can. 
MARISHA: 10 years! 
TRAVIS: And 10 years-- 
MARISHA: To come! 
TRAVIS: Down the-- 
MARISHA: 10 years? 
TRAVIS: 10 years to come. 
LAURA: And still rolling. 
ASHLEY: Still going. 
TRAVIS: Crushed it. 
MARISHA: Harvested and then canned. Uh... 
LIAM: Scoopers. 
MARISHA: Bring back the macaque! (laughter) 
MARISHA: Save us. 
MATT: All right, awesome. Sam, you have an announcement, I believe. 
SAM: I do, as Sam Riegel now. We know it's January, but the Critmas spirit lasts all year round. 
TRAVIS: Oh, I love it. 
SAM: In case you missed it, pre-orders are available now for our vinyl edition-- 
TRAVIS: Yes! 
SAM: -- of our Critical Role Presents Winter's Crest A Holiday Album. It's so cool, guys. The songs are awesome. The vinyl is even better. It comes with a standard version and a signed deluxe edition that comes with a ton of extra goodies, variant cover art, a vinyl sticker pack, a postcard, and a Polaroid pack. 
LAURA: Yeah, it's so cute! 
ASHLEY: (popped 'p' sounds) Polaroid packed with postcards. Sorry. 
SAM: Learn more and pre-order now at CritRole.com/CritmasVinyl. I bet people will spell that wrong. Critmas. 
LAURA: Critmas. 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
LAURA: ♪ It's Critmas ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ Merry Critmas ♪ 
SAM: Scoopers. 
LAURA: Hashtag scoopers. 
MATT: Awesome, thank you, Sam. All righty, friends. I believe that concludes our announcements. So let's go ahead and jump into-- (arguing) -- tonight's episode of-- 
ASHLEY: But wait, but wait! 
MATT: -- Critical Role! (screaming) 
♪ Critical ♪♪ Critical ♪♪ It's Thursday ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ One-by-one, we climb until we reach the top. ♪♪ Two-by-two, we fall. ♪ 
LAURA: ♪ Will we meet our end or meet our destiny? ♪♪ Hold your breath and roll! ♪ 
MATT: How do you want to do this? 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ Who knows what will happen? ♪♪ He might! ♪♪ But one thing's for sure, ♪♪ We never give up on the fight! ♪ 
LIAM: ♪ From the healer ♪♪ To the renegade ♪ 
MATT: ♪ We all share the same goal ♪
MATT and TALIESIN: ♪ Adding more allies ♪♪ Taking more chances ♪ 
SAM: ♪ Hold your breath and roll ♪ 
MARISHA: You can certainly try. 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ It's Thursday night. ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ From darkness, our friendship will rise ♪♪ But one thing's for sure: ♪♪ We never give up on the fight ♪♪ Oh, get ready, ♪♪ Get ready, ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪
(flames whooshing) 

Part I[]
MATT: And welcome back. So, last we left off, Bells Hells, with the aid of two other disparate groups of heroes, have managed to head towards the depths of Ruidus, trying to follow the footprints and current aspirations of the Ruby Vanguard and Ludinus Da'leth. After discovering through a vision that your mother was seemingly captured by Ludinus and being transferred, her abilities and possibly her physical being being transferred and destroyed into Ludinus through a newly constructed Quintessence Array, you raced through the subterranean tunnels, befriended a number of the myceits and the strange fungal culture that exists within the lower layers of Ruidus itself, interfaced with the core of that mycelium network and the hive mind of the myceit culture, which you also granted the seed of the All-Minds-Burn, to whatever end that might be. Trekking further on, bypassing some challenges, stumbling past others, eventually you came to the outer depths of the Prime Pillar, whereupon a fissure in the thick glass led you deeper within the tree trunk-like ringed layers of stone and glass, revealing themselves as you began to wind deeper into the central pillar that represents, it seems to be a path to the core of the moon. There, you came upon a troop of Exaltant that had surrounded Ludinus, keeping him contained within a psychic shell while he was on the cusp of absorbing the remnants of your mother. You then quickly sprang into action, defeating and dispelling and disrupting the concentration of these Exaltants until one by one, they fell. With the last one crumbling, the shield was absolved and destroyed. A rapid series of actions pulled your mother, Liliana, from the jaws of destruction and ash and your resident blue bard here immediately locked Ludinus within a dense Forcecage spell. 
TRAVIS: Let's go! 
ASHLEY: Awesome. 
TRAVIS: Sorry, sorry. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
MATT: In this moment, here within the outer layers of the Prime Pillar, Ludinus seems to nod with a strange bit of approval to what has just transpired, as you see the arching, flaring veins of purplish Exaltant energy crawling up around his neck and his arms, his hair beginning to float and flow around him. The essence of Liliana's Exaltant Ruidusborn gift being transferred, albeit temporarily, to Martinet Ludinus Da'leth. Here, as you all stand at the immediate end of an intense conflict, you catch your breath and look face to face with a very calm and smug villain. As you all stand there, Ludinus paces back and forth within the cage, like a calm lion, tiger, looking about the rest of your troop. 
LAURA: A liger, if you will. 
MATT: A liger, if you will. 
SAM: Awesome. 
MATT: (laughs) "Very well. I suppose you have your mother back. That's one thing before the end, I suppose, if it is to be an end." 
LAURA: What do you think? I thought that's not what you wanted. 
MATT: "Well, it's an end of something. End of an age. But there's so much potential, so much possibility for what's to come. Wouldn't you agree? You all wear the weathered scars of experience and challenge disaster on your faces since even the last time we met. There's a dark wisdom in being more worldly. With each step you take, I deign to take a guess that perhaps you see things a little bit closer to the way I do." 
TRAVIS: DM, while he's starting to talk, can I start to slink to the right, maybe stealthily, but not entirely concerned? I want to try and-- There seems to be a tunnel over here, right? 
MATT: Right, there is another-- 
TRAVIS: Yeah, right down here. 
MATT: -- crevasse, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Can I try and just not draw his eye and go explore that tunnel while he chats? 
MATT: Sure, make a stealth check for me, if you don't mind. 
TRAVIS: 16, 28. 28. 
MATT: Okay. As everyone's having this moment of listening to what seems to be his opening to a conversation, you quietly delve out of the edge of his periphery and begin to ever so carefully head down this little pathway. So we'll come to you in a little bit. 
LIAM: I also have a question. 
MATT: Yes. 
LIAM: He's got a, the miniature at least, is holding a staff? 
MATT: Yeah, he has a staff. 
LIAM: Has he always had that? 
MATT: Yeah. 
LIAM: Yeah? What's that look like? 
TRAVIS, ROBBIE, and MATT: (chuckle) 
MATT: It is a long, thin brass and gold looking staff. It's tightly wrapped towards the center of where he grips it and it separates off into two prongs, with an elvish lattice work that seems to weave between them, almost like a strange golden two-pronged fork of magical attuned energy. 
LIAM: Okay. Thank you. 
LAURA: Great for catching fish. 
MATT: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: He's a big camper. 
MATT and LAURA: (laugh) 
TALIESIN: You slipped just now. 
SAM: What? 
TALIESIN: He slipped. I don't even think he heard it. 
LAURA: I don't think I heard it. 
MARISHA: I know, but context, Ashton, context. 
TALIESIN: Well, I mean, there's some truth to it. We saw what we saw, and I'll admit there are some things I have shifted around in my head a bit. But you immediately went to the end of an age. You had to be reminded about the beginning of a new one. That tells me a lot about where you're at. 
MATT: "I love when the insolence of youth tends to believe it knows far more than it can. Read into my words what you wish. This isn't a chess game, this is a conversation. I have nothing to hide. I never have. At every single point, I have been nothing but forthright and honest with you, and that does not change here." 
LAURA: In my mom's head-- 
SAM: Hmm? 
LAURA: -- I'm going to say: How much of that is a lie? 
MATT: (Liliana) "I mean, as far as I'm aware, he--" 
LAURA: Oh gosh, I can still talk to her in her head, right? Oh. Yeah. 
MATT: You can, yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah, but not-- 
MATT: This is her talking back to you-- 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: -- but she's still, she's barely holding. She's much healthier thanks to the potion, but she's still significantly drained. You hear this, "I-I-I mean, I had no reason to doubt him. His methods and means are obfuscated and twisted in all manner of ways, but, I mean, I followed him because I believed him. For better or for worse, I still do." 
LAURA: For worse, Mama. 
MATT: She nods. 
TALIESIN: I mean, that's the trouble, though. I mean, I believe you. I don't think you've been lying at all. I don't honestly think any of us really think you're lying. 
LAURA: I do. 
TALIESIN: Yet we all don't like you. 
MARISHA: I think that you can lie by omission. 
LAURA: I think he lied when he said he didn't want to take Predathos himself. 
MARISHA: I know. 
LAURA: You proved yourself. 
MARISHA: What I was going to ask, did that plan change? 
MATT: (Ludinus) "Plans often change by unexpected circumstances." 
LAURA: Mm. Mm-hmm. 
MATT: He looks over towards your mother, kneeling on the ground, still catching her breath. "Liliana was to be the vessel from the beginning, but as a person as I, who has survived as long as I have, you have a number of contingencies in case things don't pan out, and, upon discovering a not altogether unexpected deceit, I had to resort to--" 
LAURA: Doing it yourself. Yeah. You're always going to be the best man for the job, Ludinus. 
LIAM: Yeah, you're an altruist. 
MARISHA: So, is this the plan? Going to make a beeline for the core, see who gets there first? Little bit of a race? I love races. 
LIAM: But you don't have to work anymore. You can sit it out and we can just leave now and go take the spot. 
TALIESIN: I agree, the gods have to be dealt with. 
MATT: "And do what?" 
TALIESIN: Just not you. That's the trouble. Never you. 
MARISHA: Would it change things if you heard-- 
MATT: "If you wanted--" 
MARISHA: -- that maybe we have our own plans of taking on Predathos? 
MATT: "What would you do as the vessel? Either of you?" 
LAURA: The beginning of a new age, Ludinus. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Yeah, it would be so amazing. I mean, I would just eat everyone-- 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: -- and I think Imogen would just-- We would have all of the snacks, and we would start with you. (munching) 
MATT: "I do not begrudge you for being the children you are, honestly. But here we are at the edge of destiny, and I think we're all owed to each other a bit of openness." 
LAURA: Isn't it weird? 
MARISHA: We're being open. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: It's such a short list of people who've called me a child in the last year or so. Weirdly, most of them are gods-- 
LAURA: Yeah, that's the thing. 
TALIESIN: -- at this point. I think there's something wrong with you now. I think you might have lived too long. I definitely know that's what's wrong with them. 
MATT: "Oh, I don't disagree. I have no aspirations for surviving far beyond this, especially given the context of my temporary imbuement." 
MARISHA: I think it looks cool. 
MATT: "But I know what needs to be done, and if a sacrifice must be made, I will make it myself. If you truly intend to align with my goals and become the vessel to the destruction of this tyrannical family, then I would not be in your way either. But I'd walk in very strong lockstep. Then again, your bloodline has already proven duplicitous. Why should I even believe you?" 
LAURA: Maybe you shouldn't. 
MATT: "Tell me your hardships. What are the things that drive you to survive here to the ends of the ruddy Moon of Ill Omen? What is it you wish to change?" 
LAURA: I want people to have a chance to change their fates. Too often I feel like what's been set in motion can't be undone, and I think that's in part due to the gods. I do. 
MARISHA: We didn't quite get to finish our conversation last time in Aeor. You kind of ran off. But I'm curious. In this past century, have you ever thought to ask the gods yourself? 
MATT: "Hmm. To what end?" 
MARISHA: To what end? You might be surprised. 
SAM: They do answer sometimes. 
MATT: "Sometimes. My family once long followed the path of the Lawbearer. My mother and father, the most devout followers, living in her holy light and divine protection, marching to the decrees of guidance and the promised order and peace of Exandria. The divine law. Through all the terror and destruction of the Calamity, they never wavered in their faith. Not once. My earliest memories still ring with their words: 'She will protect us'; 'Our love and devotion is stronger than any magic, burns brighter than any fire'; 'The Lawbearer will see us through'. My family was collateral damage in the battle between the Lawbearer and the Crawling King that destroyed our home city of Ozana. Words of remembrance on the lips of a foreign priest was all I was given in recompense. The fallen forgotten and abandoned when their god stepped away from the smoldering ruin they wrought. My conviction was forged that day and has remained unwavering since, here, on the precipice of truth and triumph. No, I do not care for their words, their platitudes. They only care about them." 
LAURA: I don't understand, Ludinus. You said over and over again that sacrifices must be made. Would you have rather let the Lawbearer have the Crawling King free, loose on the world? 
MARISHA: You don't have to have faith in the gods, but what about faith in your mother? What do you think she would make of all of this? 
MATT: "You know nothing of my mother." 
MARISHA: Mm. Looks like I hit a button. 
TALIESIN: What did you do afterwards? Where did you go? What happened? How did this happen? 
MATT: "I wandered. I met many survivors, others who were seeking a meaning to all of it, looking to their great and wondrous glorious golden gods for direction, for an apology, for comfort, for direction. And in that silence, one by one, they all walked away. So yes, sometimes sacrifices must be made. But the good remember those who made that sacrifice. I remember them when others do not." 
LAURA: Why did the gods walk away, do you think? 
MATT: "Truly, you've seen it." 
LAURA: I saw what I saw. 
MATT: "They fear their children. They fear we have too much ambition." 
LAURA: Maybe they feared the collateral damage they were wreaking upon the world. 
MATT: "Some maybe. But it's very easy for even the best to be spoiled." 
SAM: What happened to your family? 
MATT: "I literally just told you." 
LAURA: They died. 
SAM: But-- 
LAURA: They died. 
SAM: But did you get to say goodbye? 
MATT: "(scoffs) Of course not." 
MARISHA: Insight check. 
MATT: Make an insight check. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Good call. 
LIAM: First roll of the year. 
TRAVIS: Do I believe him? 
MARISHA: 15. 
MATT: 15? 
LAURA: Oh. 
ASHLEY: Ooh. 
LAURA: Whisper. 
ASHLEY: Whisper. 
LAURA: Another whisper for Ludinus. 
SAM: Can I quickly judge? 
LIAM: So far-- 
LAURA: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. 
SAM: So far, pretty good. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: Pretty good speech-- 
LAURA: Pretty decent speech. 
SAM: -- So far. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Is that a six or a nine? I mean, you're holding upside down. 
SAM: Six. Could go up to seven depending on what happens next. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: Did you say-- (laughter) 
TRAVIS: We got a rating system. 
ASHLEY: What's this now? 
LAURA: His villain monologuing. 
TALIESIN: Villain monologuing. 
MATT: I hate this. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
MATT: How do I do this? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: With friends like these. 
SAM: I'm-- 
TRAVIS: No, don't do-- What did you mark? 
MATT: Nothing. 
LAURA: Oh. 
TRAVIS: (gasps) (laughter) 
LAURA: You! 
TRAVIS: Samuel! 
SAM: This is how I ruin everything. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: What were your parents' names? 
MARISHA: Yes. What was your mother's name? 
ASHLEY: Do you remember? Since it's been so long, and it's very important, as we've learned in the past, to learn the names of people's parents. 
TALIESIN: I haven't known. I didn't know the names of mine until very recently. As someone whose parents had faith and died, and I was cast into the middle of nowhere and blamed the gods, and was left without anything. I cannot believe how much of your story makes sense to me. I cannot believe how different we both came out? I'm still an asshole, don't get me wrong. 
LAURA: That's true. 
TALIESIN: Fuck. What is wrong with you? Get over it. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Grow up. 
MATT: "What began my journey was but a spark. And there are many more stories to tell that have made me who I am today. But what have you, she who sits between many thrones, what would you do with the power of the God Eater?" 
ASHLEY: Hmm. 
LAURA: (chuckles) 
ASHLEY: (sighs) I would probably-- I would probably, like, make sure all of my friends have everything they want. Get them all a nice house. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Whatever kind of food they want. 
SAM: I don't think it's like being a genie, though. (laughter) 
LAURA: I don't know. I've never been a god. 
ASHLEY: Well, this is what kind of god I would be, so... 
SAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: I would give anybody what they wanted. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: When I want it. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Yeah. So clearly, I'm-- 
LAURA: I think you'd be-- 
ASHLEY: -- right for the job. (laughs) 
LAURA: -- You'd be a Betrayer God, wouldn't you? 
ASHLEY: Probably. 
LAURA: Just a little bit? 
ASHLEY: Probably, probably. 
LAURA: A little bit. 
ASHLEY: Probably. I probably shouldn't be the receptacle. I don't know what I would do. 
LAURA: I don't know. I mean, we can get a house out of it. 
ASHLEY: I don't know. It could go either way. It could go either way with this one. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "Then why are you here?" 
ASHLEY: Hmm? 
MATT: "Why are you here?" 
ASHLEY: I am here... 
TRAVIS: That's a great question. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Great question. Such a great question. 
LAURA: What am I doing? 
ASHLEY: What am I doing here? I'm here because I'm very curious. And if the world is going to burn, I would like to have a front-row seat. 
MATT: "Hmm. That, I can respect. What do you want?" 
MARISHA: What do I want? 
MATT: "Yes." 
MARISHA: Well. Imogen was telling the truth. We've talked about this. There is merit to giving a little bit more fate and destiny back to people. Learned quite a lot over these journeys. The gods were not the first one here. Who speaks for them? Who speaks for the titans, for the elementals? Who crafted this earth? Someone should even though they're all gone. But I am here... Really, just because I kept walking through open doors, as I always have. Some that have gotten me killed... twice (chuckles), but we are here now. Someone has to speak for those who can't speak for themselves. 
MATT: "And what of you, small, brave Ashari?" 
LIAM: I don't know that there's much I need to talk about. I'd rather just shut up and do. 
MATT: "(scoffs)" 
LIAM: Your malice is predictable. People have been spilling garbage from their mouths like yours for eons. There's nothing new about you other than the scale, Da'leth. Honestly, I can't wait for you to come out of that box. 
MATT: (chuckles) 
LAURA: In your head you hear: I love you so much, Orym. 
MATT: "Now that is forthright honesty, and it's appreciated." 
LIAM: Go fuck yourself. 
LAURA: (wheezes) (laughs) 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: "And you, Wanderer of the Silken Sails, what's your part in all of this with these strange beings of fate and destiny? What do you want?" 
ROBBIE: I've always been in it for the ride. But now that I'm here, I feel like... I feel like I want to help steer a little. Can I ask you a question? 
MATT: "(scoffs)" 
ROBBIE: Is that allowed? I feel like... rules. 
MATT: "I have been nothing but present." 
LAURA: So benevolent. 
MATT: "Mm." 
ROBBIE: I know you think you're right. I don't know, maybe you are, but do you think what you're doing is good? Do you think that what you're doing is good? In your mind's eye, do you think you're right? 
MATT: "Not everything I've done is good, but it's all been to serve what I know to be right." 
ROBBIE: Ha! Gotcha. It's perfect. The best villains always think they're right. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: Wait. We think we're right, too. 
ROBBIE: Don't think too hard about it. 
SAM: Okay. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: We're the good guys. 90% sure. 
SAM: Are you sure? 
ROBBIE: No. 
LAURA: I don't know. 
LIAM: I don't know if that's accurate. 
LAURA: I don't know. 
TALIESIN: No, I am. 
ASHLEY: Am I a villain? 
LAURA: Are we the drama? 
TALIESIN: Pretty messy. 
MARISHA: At least we don't have illusions of this as a means to an end. That's what makes a villain. 
MATT: "What makes a villain is posing perspective. That's all it is. That's all it's ever been. And you, fiendling in training, you are a strange outlying thread in this motley crew. What is it you want?" 
SAM: (sighs) 
MATT: "They wish the gods to perhaps be gone. Perhaps our goals are aligned in different ways, but you, you are a conundrum." 
SAM: I... I must admit. I share some of your distinct history with gods and (tongue clicks) have lost faith as well. I also, although everybody here, including me, thinks you're an asshole, I'm sorry about your family. I know that that's rough and can change a person. Frankly, I-- I don't know what I want. I feel like being around people who do can help guide a person, but you're alone and have no one to guide you, and haven't for a long time. That must be very hard. 
MATT: "(scoffs)" 
SAM: I'm sorry. I'm going to walk away from him and walk to a different corner of the room. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: After he walks away, I've got my arms crossed. I'm going to shoot two fingers at Imogen and send a message. Whisper to myself for her: Hey, that thing doesn't last forever and he can get out if he tries. What are we doing here? I don't know. 
LAURA: Should we, uh-- 
ROBBIE: I feel like he's stalling. 
LAURA: Let's look around a little bit. Where's Chet? 
MATT: Meanwhile. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: ♪ It was Laudna. She was a showgirl. ♪ ♪ Ha! ♪ (laughter) 
ASHLEY: (vocalizing) 
MATT: Meanwhile, Chetney, you've moved through this other, maybe, at times, 10-foot-wide, at times, maybe only six-foot-wide. It's a little wider. This zigzagging crevasse where part of the glass is split up the top and leads to this strangely arcing point at the top. This glass cavern with bits of rock that break through and it transitions into more stone with the waves of glass coming. These odd marbled striations of the sedimentary layers essentially of Ruidus moving inward deeper into the pillar. You've been following this for quite a bit and it opens up into a smaller sub-chamber that then has nowhere other real exit other than across the way where it splinters off into another path, like some ancient exhaust or something pushed through here to create this opening that still remains. But about now, you come into one larger, I want to say almost triangular chamber that opens up from where you are outward and then comes to a large glass wall deeper in the pillar. In this space, you can see bits of rock jutting up from it and other glass pillars that hit from the ceiling to floor. But where the glass is, the broken opening that leads deep within is obscured with multiple layers of barely visible golden geometry. 
TRAVIS: Mm. 
MATT: Lattice patterns of some extremely detailed glyph-like barrier, multitudes of layers of it sitting densely one beneath the next. 
TRAVIS: (sighs) (clears throat) Big red button, you guys. I'm sorry. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. 
SAM: Jump in! 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: 10 years, you know what's happening. Okay. (clears throat) Happening. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, you know what's happening. 
TRAVIS: First of all, while we've been walking, has there been any tracks on the ground? Does this seem like treaded ground? 
MATT: Make an investigation check for me. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
MATT: Investigation or survival, your choice. 
TALIESIN: So excited by this. 
TRAVIS: Dirty 20. 
MATT: Dirty 20. Best you can tell. None. 
TRAVIS: Okay. No dust disturbed. Okay, cool, cool, cool. Can I (sniffs) give a smell to the air and use a little Hunter's Bane? Is there any indication of a living or undead type of creature in this room of this cavern, this triangular-- 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
TRAVIS: That was total shit. Six. 
MATT: Six. Hard to tell, and the reason is because as you step into this chamber, there's been that odd periphery buzzing sense, low, heavy, heavy subwoofer bass, (audio buzzes), sitting underneath the atmosphere here. Where you stand now, it is (intense audio buzzes), it is loud. It hits your senses, your sensitive, wolven gnomish ears. 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah. 
MATT: In a way where you can feel like your eardrums are perpetually flickering. Like they're twitching. 
LAURA: Ugh. 
SAM: Ah. 
MATT: Sorry, Liam. 
LAURA: (exclaims) 
SAM: Ah. 
MATT: It is this oppressive general vibration that you cannot pinpoint that seems to be mucking with your senses, and it seems getting heavier and heavier the closer you've gotten towards this current boundary. 
TRAVIS: From the opening where I'm at to where this golden latticework is, what's the distance there? 
MATT: It's about 130 feet, 140 feet maybe from where you currently are. 
TRAVIS: I just want to touch it. I just want to touch it. I just want to go back and tell the others. 
MATT: Large pieces of rock pillars that are pushed out of the ground, but at an odd angle. It's like some sort of force long ago blasted them back and caused them to arc and freeze in place. 
TRAVIS: I should be a team player, I should go. I should go back and tell the others. 
ROBBIE: They can't. 
TRAVIS: They say only the good die young, but I'm not good. I'm going to keep going into the room. Can I look for any sort of, in case this has been scoured before, any kind of traps or wards, or anything that would ensnare somebody trying to cross to this exposed. 
MATT: Sure. Make a-- 
LIAM: Good rogue. 
MATT: Make an investigation check for me if you don't mind. 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
SAM: (Veth) Check for traps. 
TRAVIS: 21. 
MATT: 21. You do not see any traps. You do not see any laid glyphs. You don't see any-- 
TRAVIS: I don't like the way he said that. 
MATT: -- wires or lines. 
MARISHA: You don't see. 
TRAVIS: Lifted his head first. 
MATT: It's this open stretch of this chamber that eventually comes to this opening with the boundaries there from some raised platforms, glowing pulsing glass, but that's-- 
TRAVIS: Can I cautiously cross the room about halfway, maybe 50, 60, 70-ish feet. I'll take out one of the wooden disks that's a C-Pop Industries exclusive and looking at the golden latticework can I stone-skip, wing it like a frisbee (whooshes) into the wall? 
MATT: Yeah, make an athletic check for me. 
LIAM: Did Chet invent Pogs? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: It's been a mainstay of my toy business for decades. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: You have to make sure he dies here. 
TRAVIS: It comes in and out of style, but Chetney never does. 
MARISHA: If I win, I get your slammer! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Natural 17 for 26. 
MATT: This one's Ruidian glass. (laughter) 
MATT: 26? (whooshes) You chuck it. It (swish) arcs a bit. Hits it. There's little (tiny impact) a blast of arcane spark. A subtle gold-tinted flash. And it skips off and hits the ground, and comes to rest. 
TRAVIS: I'm going to get closer and go pick it up, and inspect it. Is it singed or burned, or just broken? 
MATT: Just like it hit something hard. 
TRAVIS: (nervous whimpering) As I get closer, I'd like to get within 15 to 10 feet of this. 
MATT: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Is it moving, static, solid? 
MATT: As you approach and you get a closer look at it, the faint, golden energy and light that's emanating from it, it is an endless fractal of woven glyph-like detail, that shifts together and moves its-- You saw patterns like this when Ira's telescope-- 
TRAVIS: Looked up at the moon. 
MATT: -- saw the outer barrier that had set an illusion boundary around Ruidus. This has some semblance to the weave of the Divine Gate. It is just-- You get close and you can see the larger glyphs that shift and move and weave. As you look in, they're made up of smaller glyphs that are made up of smaller glyphs, and it's this endless fractal to an infinitesimal point. The multiple layers move in different directions beneath each one, and you're not even sure how many there are. 
TRAVIS: I'm going to take out the Staff of Dark Odyssey that I've been entrusted to safekeep and protect from the group. Put it on the ground behind me-- (laughter) 
TRAVIS: -- and fuck it, I'm going to reach out and touch it. (tongue clicks) 
LAURA: Oh god. 
MATT: (thud) Your finger touches it, and it's an immediate resistance that is warm. It's like pressing your finger against a piece of solid glass or stone that is hotter than your body temperature. So it feels, not enough to burn you necessarily, but it has its own unique heat and it feels solid. 
TRAVIS: Oh, that's not so bad. It's not so bad. We could get through this. 
MATT: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Take out a little chisel. 
LIAM: (gasps) God. 
TRAVIS: With all my centuries of craftsmanship, and I give it a (whack), just one little hit into it. 
MATT: You do. (thuds) The hammer bounces back, almost like it seems to be repelling it with an equal or close to equal amount of force that was put into it. 
TRAVIS: Okay, fuck you. Okay, cool. Not for me. Yeah, but-- No, (panting) I've been running for a while. I'm going to turn around, grab the staff, and start heading back up the walkway towards the rest of everyone else. 
MATT: Okay. While you're heading back, returning to the chamber-- 
LAURA: Oh yeah, you were asking me. 
SAM: Was the perfect segue. (laughter) 
MATT: That's also true. Yeah. 
LAURA: Can I, in my mom's head-- 
MATT: Yeah. 
LAURA: -- while Ludinus is monologuing-- 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: Ask her, "Do you know?-- (tumbler screeches) 
SAM: Sorry. 
LAURA: Really? 
SAM: I didn't think it was going to do that. (tumbler screeches) (laughter) 
SAM: I did. 
LAURA: Yeah. Yeah. You knew that one. 
SAM: I did know that was going to do that. (laughter) 
LAURA: Do you know how Ludinus planned on you getting through, on you becoming the vessel? 
MATT: "We-- we hadn't gotten this far before, but through both of our visions as far as I know it, it requires someone carrying the mark of Predathos to press through the boundaries from this side to temporarily leave them traversable." 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: "It was, from what he said, the true purpose of the Ruidusborn, to come back to this home and usher it beyond its cage." 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: Ludinus is looking over your troupe a bit as you wander off and you're all still carrying on. "So I've devoted my life to knowledge, patterns, control. I've studied and mastered the whims of ambition, weaving well-worn pathways and tyrants." 
LAURA: I'm going to Misty Step to the tunnel. (laughter) 
MATT: Misty Step to the tunnel? 
LAURA: To the mouth of the tunnel-- 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: -- and take off running. 
MATT: (Ludinus) "Children are so impatient." 
ASHLEY: I'm listening. I'm listening. I was ready to hear the whole thing. 
MATT: Okay. What's the DC on your Forcecage? 
MARISHA: Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. 
ROBBIE: 16. 
LIAM: When he moved. 
LAURA: Oh, that's it? 
MATT: 16. You all watch as-- 
LAURA: 16?! 
ROBBIE: I know. 
MATT: -- Ludinus Daleth sighs watching Imogen vanish, and kind of-- (sighs) His hair (air whooshing) begin to float up, and the energy in his body (energy whooshing) to spark up brighter. You watch his eyes go to a bright violet-white coloration as he lifts off the ground. His very outfit seems to flicker and burn red with the energy that's glowing off of him. Then (air whooshing)-- 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: -- he's gone. 
LIAM: Vanish from sight. 
MATT: He just-- 
ROBBIE: First try. 
MARISHA: (singsong) We haven't-- 
MATT: -- disappeared. 
LIAM: Take off after Imogen. 
MARISHA: -- done that short rest ball. 
TRAVIS: Could I? 
MATT: Yes? 
TRAVIS: As I get to the cavern, could I turn around and use one thing? I'd like to leave an item at the front of the cavern. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Then could I also use Detect Magic, to look in the cavern in case there's anything I'm not seeing? 
MATT: Sure. So you cast Detect Magic. As you're running back down the hallway and you cast the spell as you're chugging along, your vision clarifies, and as you do, the bits of glass that are in the rock around you, gives a faint magical aura, but it's not of a woven spell craft or an enchantment, but there is-- 
TRAVIS: Innate. 
MATT: Yeah, they have an innate magical essence to them. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MATT: Though alien than any other magic you've encountered. Whereas normally, with Detect Magic, you can gather a sense of which kind of school of magic it's related to. This sits weirdly out of it. It's like looking at ultraviolet color that's beyond the color spectrum that you're familiar with. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: I mean, like, "I recognize that's a color, but I don't know how to describe it." You know, it's that kind of a vibe to it. It doesn't take too long before, as you're rushing back, you hear footsteps, and Imogen (air whooshing) apparates at the early entrance to the tunnel that you would come through, right around your direction. The rest of you get into a quick run behind her. 
TRAVIS: Oh, hey, there's a whole latticework thing, I was-- 
LAURA: Yeah. I'm going. Just go, go go. 
TRAVIS: What do you mean go? Where's Ludinus? 
LAURA: (groans) 
ASHLEY: He left. 
TRAVIS: He left?! 
LAURA: He might be there. Go! 
TRAVIS: But he didn't come through-- Can I look back at the latticework? Is he anywhere in the cavern? 
MATT: Well, you've come quite a bit into the tunnel-- 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: -- to catch up with them. You're almost back before they-- 
TRAVIS: Got it. 
MATT: -- arrive. 
TRAVIS: Well, shit! Don't worry, I left something waiting for him. 
LAURA: Okay. Did you? 
TRAVIS: A trap of deadly magnitude-- 
LAURA: Great. 
TRAVIS: -- unheard of. 
MARISHA: Magic can't get through that Forcecage, right? 
ROBBIE: No. 
MARISHA: I'm assuming that would include a Counterspell? 
TRAVIS: You think he just made himself invisible? 
LAURA: No, we teleported out. 
MARISHA: No, I think he teleported out. I'm wondering if I could have Counterspelled it. But I-- 
MATT: Unfortunately, nothing can get through the Forcecage. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: He just made himself invisible. 
LIAM: Orym falls in around Imogen and I'm looking for him. Is there any place in this chamber that he could be-- 
MATT: Well, you're not in the chamber yet. You're checking-- 
LIAM: I'm just-- 
MATT: -- through the tunnel-- 
LIAM: -- on the way? 
MATT: -- on transit. 
LIAM: All right. 
MATT: So-- 
LIAM: Okay, I'll save it. 
MATT: All right. 
SAM: I don't know. They just left. 
LAURA: I didn't do that. 
SAM: I'm off somewhere else. 
TRAVIS: What are you doing? 
LAURA: What are you talking about? 
TRAVIS: What are you doing? 
SAM: Well, I was going to sit down and pray. 
LAURA: Oh shit. Well, sorry. 
SAM: But everybody just left, and I don't know that they did. 
MARISHA and MATT: Well-- (laughter) 
MARISHA: That's not true. 
MATT: For instance-- 
TRAVIS: We make a clamor, right? 
MARISHA: We're all still there. 
MATT: Here's what we'll do. Because you said obviously you're going off to pray and then everyone else was talking for a bit before this happened. 
SAM: Yes. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: So you said you wanted to pray to your deity? 
SAM: I wanted to sit down, next to a face of rock of some sort, and I was going to take out my paints, my poison paints, and I was going to quickly splatter a symbol on the rock in poison paint and then touch it with my hand even if it burns a little, and ask, reach out. In this moment, reach out and ask: At the cusp of the end of my mission, I need guidance. I need renewed faith. I need inspiration. And I need to speak with you-- 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: -- my Lord. 
LAURA: Nooo! 
TRAVIS: You're making a collect call? 
ROBBIE: Who is your Lord? Which Lord? Which Lord? 
MATT: So in a little timey wimey here-- 
LIAM: The deity you're trying to reach is not available. 
MATT: -- while all this has been happening right before it did, Braius had stepped off to attempt to reach out to a source of divine inspiration. You know what? Let's have all the rest of you leave the table if you don't mind. 
TRAVIS: Whoa! 
ROBBIE: Oh! Ooh! 
LAURA: What? No. 
SAM: Oh, funsies. 
TALIESIN: Ooh. 
TRAVIS: Did you know you were going to do that? 
SAM: Uh-uh. 
TRAVIS: You didn't know he was going to kick that off? 
MATT: All right. 
LAURA: -- we're out? We're leaving? 
ASHLEY: Wait, we're not going to know-- 
LIAM: Bye. 
LAURA: What he does, we he do? 
ASHLEY: Hang on, I got to put my shoes back on. 
LAURA: Oh my gosh. 
LIAM: What's happening? 
LAURA: What if his good old god-- Okay. 
MATT: All right. Let's go. 
ASHLEY: Did you know something like this was going to happen? 
MATT: Just step out into the kitchen. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
ROBBIE: All right, all right, all right. 
MARISHA: If he says to kill us all-- 
SAM: (yells) 
MARISHA: -- don't listen to him. 
SAM: Oh boy. I wish I had a rat right now. 
MATT: I'm going to ask you in a second who specifically you're praying to. 
SAM: Sure. 
MATT: So-- 
ASHLEY: I'm just going to stay here. 
MATT: (slightly menacing laughter) 
SAM: (panting) 
MATT: All right. 
SAM: Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
MATT: All right, they left the room. Braius. 
SAM: Huh? 
MATT: Who did you pray to? 
SAM: I'm reaching out to see if the Lord of Lies, the King of the Hells, Lord Asmodeus will hear my plea for guidance. 
MATT: Hmm. Okay. As you place your hand upon this symbol and reach out to one of the stronger sources of divine guidance to one of the stronger sources of divine guidance in your recent years, you feel that buzzing sound at the edge of your vision (air buzzing) begin to shake. Your vision seems to vibrate as all shapes in the painted symbol that you put upon the rock seems to change and move. And in that moment, your vision begins to tunnel until a flame (flame whooshing) burns it back. While your vision still remains imperfect, and blurred, and unfocused, amongst the shadows, you look in front of you, an onyx throne that curves up in all manner of horns or clawed fingers, you can smell throughout the intense sulfur and burned bone that seems to cultivate this darkened space, with a sense of horror and belonging. Here in this black and shattered space, (air whooshing) this vision itself forces itself to fight through this region where divinity is kept at bay. The shadow peels away, and you see the beautiful face of your fallen angelic Lord in his black and red robes. As he leans in, "My child, what is it that you seek guidance for?" 
SAM: If I'm not kneeling, I kneel and lower my head in reverence: I apologize for disturbing you in this hour of great import, but signs from you have been few and far between, but signs from you have been few and far between, and I've been shown so many other paths, and I've been shown so many other paths, none of which I've taken, my Lord. But in the absence of clarity, sometimes a mission can become muddled or-- I fear I stand on shaky ground. I've met people who consider me their ally, who have goals aligned with ours, but for different reasons. And now I've just spoken with our enemy, Ludinus Da'leth, whose history and story actually sounds remarkably like my own, and it shook me. I want to make sure that I'm doing the right thing, I'm following your path and I'm not confusing your orders. 
MATT: "It is good of you to check in, Braius. For indeed, through some whim of the threaded fates, you stand at the cusp of a choice. Ludinus may be a tragic figure, deeply misguided. Such beings might need new direction. Or if their goals are in opposition to our personal interests, they must be erased. He's too far gone. Destroy him. But Predathos cannot be set free. 
SAM: Cannot be set-- Oh okay. 
MATT: "If you cannot do this, then perhaps--" 
SAM: N-no, no. I-I can. I can. I-I've accomplished much in my-- 
MATT: "Who do you walk with, Braius?" 
SAM: Who do I walk with? I walk with you, my Lord. When I was at my lowest, when tragedy befell me, I thought about ending it all. I thought my life was over, and you were there. You sent a guide to guide me. To tell me I had something to live for. That I was special. That I didn't need the approval of the Prime Deities, or a temple, or anyone. That I was strong enough on my own. When you commanded me to destroy that first guide, Stanley, I did. I did as you commanded me. And I've done much more since using the knowledge you've given me and the abilities that you've granted me. I've made allies with important people. I've met the heads of churches, and temples, and kingdoms. I've found this group that considers me their ally, and have brought me all over the world. I've even found that, I-I-I've gotten this armor, this armor. This comes from the Platinum Dragon himself. 
MATT: "Oh, I greatly recognize it. (laughs menacingly)" 
SAM: My Lord, they just gave it to me. And I have another boon, too, one that I can use to help you. But how will I know if the time is right, and what will happen if I succeed? Will I-- 
MATT: "What do you want, Braius?" 
SAM: I am in no position to ask you for anything, my lord. 
MATT: "You are in every position to ask, Braius. You've already done so much. You, who was abandoned by those who could not see the spark of potential within you. You, who was lost and adrift because you spent a life in service to others who cared little. But now you live in service to yourself, and as such in service to me, and I'm so proud. So, you, who work so hard, you, who now represent our future, my future. What is it you want, Doomseed?" 
SAM: Well, first and foremost, to please you, my lord. But... I wish for family. I wish-- My family discarded me when I, when I ruined their name, and I've been alone for so long. I wish for a family and a place to call my own, my home. Maybe I could, maybe I could go to where you dwell and sit with-- 
MATT: "Sweet, sweet Braius." His clawed fingers cup your chin as he leans forward His clawed fingers cup your chin as he leans forward and looks into your eyes. "You already have a family and a home, and it will be yours forever. You just need to protect it." 
SAM: Protect it? Yes. Destroy Ludinus, but do not free Predathos. 
MATT: "If it must be freed, do what you must to bend it to our will. I know you walk alongside vessels. I know you've ingratiated yourself to those who might very well be the crux of our time. Bend them to us." 
SAM: What if they won't listen to me? 
MATT: "Then perhaps it needs a vessel to survive, and without a vessel still remaining, your home will be protected." 
SAM: I understand. And you'll bring me to you? 
MATT: "And so many more things, Braius. You've only stepped but a little into these flames and pleasures. I'm proud of you." 
SAM: I must confess, these friends I'm with, I like them. I don't know if I'll be strong enough to-- How will I be strong enough to betray them? 
MATT: "Patience." 
SAM: You can't give me a special spell or something? 
MATT: "I'm never far from you, Braius. When the moment is right, we'll strike together." 
SAM: I look forward to that day. It might be today, actually. 
MATT: "Time is always of the essence, isn't it?" 
SAM: It is. 
MATT: "(sighs)" 
SAM: (sighs) Thank you for seeing in me what others wouldn't. Thank you for not abandoning me. 
MATT: He looks over at you with a soft smile. "You've always been special. Now show the rest of the world why." (flames whooshing) The flames wreath your vision (whooshing) and you are back inside the chamber with your hand on the symbol. As you pull away, you watch as the paint (smoldering) burns into ash, leaving the rock face clean as it was before you started. In that moment, you see the rest of your friends suddenly, notice Imogen vanish off elsewhere, Ludinus vanish, and they all begin to charge into a tunnel. You can call the rest of the troop in, if you don't mind. I'm going to go ahead and... 
SAM: We should hide, you and me. 
MATT: Let's do it! 
SAM: Just hide. (laughs) 
MATT: (laughs) 
SAM: Shit, they went to Glendale or something. 
MATT: I know, right? 
TRAVIS: We're here. We're coming! 
SAM: There they are. 
TRAVIS: We're coming! 
SAM: Nice jacket. 
ROBBIE: ♪ What if God was one of us? ♪ 
TRAVIS: Are we live? 
SAM: (elderly) I am like you now. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Oh no! You're old and bald and withered? 
SAM: I'm an old man. 
ROBBIE: Did you already have-- 
TRAVIS: Braius got turned into an old geezer! 
SAM: I like to-- 
ASHLEY: Did you win? 
TRAVIS: He got withered! 
SAM: I like wood. I like wood. 
TRAVIS: Got all the life sucked out of him. 
ASHLEY: Oh no, are you Chet now? 
TRAVIS: Tell me you believe me. 
TALIESIN: Robbie, is this yours? 
LAURA: Robbie, is that yours? 
ROBBIE: What? Ooh, I'm good. Thank you so much. 
LAURA: Was that yours? 
ROBBIE: It is, but I switched beverages. 
LAURA: Well, you already-- 
ROBBIE: Okay, I'll take them both. Now I got two. 
TALIESIN: Now you got two, man. 
LIAM: Did you open a gate to hell? 
TRAVIS: We were strategizing out there. We used the time wisely. 
LAURA: Fully. 
TRAVIS: No way talked about balls. 
LAURA: Definitely we were not talking about-- 
ASHLEY: No, definitely didn't-- (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Or tits. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: That was the most base conversation. 
TALIESIN: Oh god. 
ROBBIE: For 30 minutes. 
LIAM: It was one of our fouler conversations. 
ROBBIE: It really was. 
TALIESIN: It was really foul. 
ASHLEY: Orgasmic therapy. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) Huh? 
MATT: Well damn, we were in the wrong game. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Man, when you lay it out, what a weird conversation we all just had. 
TRAVIS: (shushing) 
MATT: So (focusing whoosh) coming back to this moment, the troop of you has begun to run into the tunnel after where Imogen had Misty Stepped and began to run, where you encounter Chetney, who is returning from doing a bit of intel. 
TRAVIS: Ah! 
MATT: You all continue onward through this winding, cavernous tunnel. 
MARISHA: I actually hadn't taken off yet. 
MATT: Okay, so you're still there. 
MARISHA: I think I would turn around and try to gather Braius before we all run. 
MATT: Okay, yeah. You step up and Braius places his hand on the rock and is standing there for a second. 
MARISHA: Braius, I think it's go time. 
MATT: At that exact moment, he put his hand on the rock for but a moment, he pulls his hand back, and you watch as this splash of paint (sizzles) burns into ash. 
MARISHA: (gasps) Were you doing art? 
SAM: I was, but it doesn't seem to-- I think I need canvas or paper. So this doesn't seem to be the right surface for medium. Where is everybody? 
MARISHA: Oh, they went running off, I think to fight Ludinus. 
SAM: Oh god. Okay. 
MARISHA: So we should go. 
SAM: Yes, yes, yes. Let's go. 
MARISHA: Let's go. 
MATT: Okay. So the rest of you-- 
SAM: (clacks coconut shells) 
MARISHA: Frescos. 
MATT: (laughs) Oh my god. 
MARISHA: That's what they're called, right? Frescos? 
SAM: Yes. 
MARISHA: People paint on rock. 
ASHLEY: (trotting coconut shells) 
ROBBIE: Oh, that's good. 
ASHLEY: Thank you. 
MATT: The rest of you go rushing into the entryway to this long chamber, this triangular shaped chamber amongst the various curved rock points and pillars that rise up, the columns of glass. Across the way, you can see what Chetney has already encountered, the layers and layers of some divine barrier across the chasm, or the chamber opening. There you see at it, floating and glowing red-violet with energy, Ludinus facing away with both hands on the boundary-- 
LAURA: Goddamn it. 
MATT: -- as the glyphs and golden script is alighting around his hands. 
LAURA: I am going to Psychic Lance him. 
SAM: Oh shit! We're just doing this. 
MARISHA: Hell yeah. Let's fucking go. 
MATT: What's the range on Psychic Lance? 
LAURA: 120 feet. 
MATT: Okay, so you step in within 120 feet. All right. 
LAURA: How soon would I be able to see him? 
MATT: You guys all step into the chamber. He's probably 140 feet from where you first step in there. 
LIAM: Okay. 
LAURA: Oh, okay. 
MATT: So you move in, and as soon as you get in range, you can try to hit him with the Psychic Lance. 
TRAVIS: Also, there is a C-Pop exclusive limited edition one of four on the ground. He has to make a DC wisdom saving throw (laughs) or become distracted. 
MARISHA: Oh my god! 
ROBBIE: Oh! 
TRAVIS: It's a 15 wisdom save, but it's something! 
SAM: Maybe. Maybe. 
TRAVIS: Amazing. 
MARISHA: I want this to work so bad. 
MATT: That's going to be a 19. 
TRAVIS: Goddamn it. 
MATT: Sorry. But that was a worthy shot. 
LAURA: That would've been amazing! 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah. Good job. 
TRAVIS: Leave it on the floor! It's not even worth keeping! 
MATT: (laughs) But it was worth a shot. That was awesome. 
LIAM: He's too old. There's no joy in his heart. 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
MATT: All right, so Psychic Lance, is that a saving throw on his point? 
LAURA: Yes, it is an intelligence saving throw. 
MATT: Intelligence saving throw. That's going to be a 26. 
LAURA: (groans) 
ROBBIE: Whoa! 
SAM: (groans) 
ASHLEY: I would like to cast Earth Bind on him. 
ROBBIE: Whoa. 
MATT: Sure. Okay. 
ASHLEY: If I could. 
MATT: We'll do the order of operations here. 
ASHLEY: So he stops moving around. 
MATT: Yeah, range 300 feet. You can definitely do that. 
LIAM: There's a lot of distance between us, but there's no yawning chasm or anything that's hard to cross or anything? It's just distance? 
MATT: It's just distance. So as soon as you rush in, the casters have an immediate reaction to go ahead and start-- 
ASHLEY: Stop! 
MATT: All right, so you cast Earth Bind. 
TRAVIS: ♪ In the name-- ♪ 
MATT: So you need a strength saving throw. That's going to be a 16. 
ASHLEY: 19. 
MATT: All right, so his fly speed is reduced to zero for the spell's duration. 
LAURA: Oh, it's just fly speed. 
LAURA: You've done that before. 
ASHLEY: Oh, it's just fly speed! God dang! I keep doing that every time. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: But didn't that work? It worked once. 
SAM: Mm, mm-mm. 
ASHLEY: It worked with Delilah. 
ROBBIE: We can see what he's doing. We can see what he's doing. He's touching the first layer of the barrier. Is that right? 
MATT: Correct. 
ROBBIE: Does it seem-- 
ASHLEY: Damn it. 
ROBBIE: By looking, if we can see the effect, does it seem like there's a dissipating effect as he's trying to do what he's doing? Or is there a visual cue? 
MATT: Make an arcana check if you'd like to. 
ROBBIE: Uh-oh. 
MATT: From this distance, it'll be your action to do this. 
SAM: ♪ From this distance ♪ 
MATT: All of you are getting one round before he gets any reaction right now. 
LAURA: (groans) 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
ROBBIE: All right, I want that to be my thing. 
LIAM: Okay. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: No. 
MARISHA: Oh no. 
ROBBIE: It's a natural one. 
LAURA: Oh! 
ROBBIE: Yeah, but I want to take a look. 
TRAVIS: But you're close to Orym! 
ROBBIE: What's he doing over there? 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: He did suck Liliana's powers. 
MATT: He's touching some sort of magical barrier. 
ROBBIE: Cool. Cool, all right. 
MATT: Sorry, man. 
ROBBIE: That's the dice, baby. 
LAURA: But we just got to get there. 
LIAM: He's two hands on-- 
TRAVIS: Too far away. 
LIAM: -- and his staff is, what, slung somehow? 
MATT: The staff is floating to the side of him. 
LIAM: Floating next to him? 
TALIESIN: I hate that. 
MARISHA: Cool. 
LIAM: For mine, I'm going to use my action and my movement to sprint toward him to try to get within 30-ish feet and I'm going to thrust Seedling out and reach a vine out and try to yank that staff. 
MATT: Okay, your speed is? 
SAM: Mm, yank that staff. 
LIAM: 30. 
MATT: 30 feet. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: He is 140 feet from where you guys enter the chamber. 
LIAM: So he's too far away. 
MATT: So you could move to 110 to 80 on a dash and a move. 
LIAM: That's it. 
MATT: So you're halfway across the chamber. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: So you moved 60 feet at that point. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: All right, so you're 80 feet from him. 
TRAVIS: We should stick with Orym. Stay with Orym, stay close. 
LAURA: Keep running. Keep running. 
SAM: Are me and Laudna almost there? 
MATT: You've entered now, behind a bit. So you guys don't get an action this round, but you're at the front of the chamber. 
ASHLEY: It's okay. He's not going anywhere. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I took care of it. 
TRAVIS: Laudna, Braius, stay close! 
MATT: Inogem, are you moving further into the chamber after casting? 
LAURA: Yeah, I'm running. I'm shooting it. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: Keep dashing. 
MATT: So note these numbers. You are 60 feet into the chamber. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: You are 30 feet into the chamber. Both of them are at the entrance. 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Are you moving closer? 
ROBBIE: Yeah, I'm running with everybody else. 
MATT: Okay, so you're also 30 feet into the chamber. You're moving as well? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: 30 feet into the chamber. 
TALIESIN: I'm moving in and activating the Shard of Ka'Mort as well. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: I'm doing that. I'm diving underground as we go. If it's possible. It's unworked? 
MATT: In here, you can get partway down and the glass that is all throughout this chamber is preventing you from fully submerging. 
TALIESIN: Gotcha. 
MATT: As soon as you get in there, you realize it's almost like a cinnamon roll type marbling of the glass and the stonework throughout. So it isn't just raw rock and stones. You cannot quite fully immerse yourself. 
TALIESIN: That's fine. 
TRAVIS: We should stay close because if he does get it down, we can-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah. I'm sticking with the group. 
MATT: All right. Chetney. 
TRAVIS: I'm trying to stay close to the furthest person, which is Orym. 
LIAM: Seems like a terrible god eater, actually a cinnamon roll. (laughter) 
MATT: Could be. 
ROBBIE: Oh, hey! 
MATT: Okay, for the ease of setting up what this will look like-- 
LAURA: Fuck! 
MATT: -- let's go to break. 
LIAM: Oh! 
ROBBIE: Oh! 
SAM: Go to break! 
ALL: Oh! 
MATT: Yeah, an early break because I need to go ahead and set what this looks like. 
LIAM: Oh damn! 
ROBBIE: Oh, wow. 
SAM: Oh shit! 
ROBBIE: Break! 
MATT: So yeah, we've had some late breaks, we got some early breaks. Let's go for an early break. We'll be here in a few minutes to see where this takes us. So see you here in a second. 
TRAVIS: Oh!

Break[]
(heroic music) (fey music) (jaunty music) 
? It's a merry, merry Critmas ♪ ♪ (It's Critmas!) ♪ ♪ Oh, here in Californ-i-a ♪ ♪ It's a merry, merry Critmas ♪ ♪ (It's Critmas!) ♪ ♪ Around the table playin' games ♪ ♪ The fire burns, ♪ ♪ the stories are told, ♪ ♪ Till it's time for bed, ♪ ♪ and the cocoa's cold ♪ ♪ It's Critmas... ♪ ♪ (It's Critmas!) ♪ ♪ We're hopin' that you roll our way ♪ ♪ Have a merry, merry Critmas! ♪ 
You've fought well, princesses. But this battle is far from over. I've made sure of it. You didn't think there were only six princesses in Twelvefold, did you? [laughter] Allow me to introduce Elise LaKraken, Diva of the Twelve Tides. Qasima al-Basar, Gentlewoman Thief of the Lamp. Kahurere Skyfisher, Rebel of the New Dawn. And then there's me, Azil with a Z. What Other Letter Would It Be? [laughter] By mind, magic, or might, claim your crown at last. Dare to be... Queen by Midnight Quarter Past. We'll see you in time. [laughter] 
(mysterious music) How much should we take? Three handfuls. Three handfuls? Are you talking about three 'me' handfuls or or three 'you' handfuls? Timpani, we're always judging on your hand from now on. Three handfuls which I see as seven cups. It's absolutely perfect. A cup and a half blew a crater in the side of the mountain. This is not an exact science. Three handfuls, if you could, sir. Put it at the base of that tree. Sneaky and quiet. Quiet, Timpani. Very quiet. You got this, Timpani. 
LAURA: Hey Critters! Laura Bailey here to guide you through what's new in the Critical Role shop. Style should never be a dump stat, darling. (gasp) Could anything be more perfect? Ooo so comfy cozy. The cuteness! It's overpowering. Check it out. Look. It has pockets. Go ahead, darling. Treat yourself. Oh my gosh, it's so amazing. This is a lot of stuff, you guys. We have so many cool things right now. And hey if you want, you could head over to the Critical Role shop right now. 
(epic music) (mischievous music) (typewriter clacking) (peaceful music) 
LAURA: (VO) Do you find yourself dealing with low energy, drowsiness, or boredom? 
MARISHA: You may have made a pact with an infernal demon, or you may be suffering from Low CR. 
LAURA: (VO) Low CR is a common condition that affects between most and nearly all adult humans. Low CR, or Low Critical Role, occurs when human people don't have enough nerdy voice actors in their lives. But now, there's a cure! 
MARISHA: I don't let Low CR control my life anymore. 
LAURA: (VO) Beacon is a non-invasive subscription that provides 24 hours exclusive content each day. 
MARISHA: This was when we decided it should look like a gender reveal party. 
LAURA: (VO) Early access to event tickets, members-only Discord, 10% off merchandise, and more. Do not take Beacon if you are allergic to Beacon. Consult your familiar if you think Beacon could work for you. 
MARISHA: Side effects may include excessive enjoyment, overexcitement, and diarrhea. 
LAURA: (VO) Critical Role is in no way a treatment, medication, or anything other than a bunch of nerdy voice actors. Do not watch Critical Role unless you enjoy it. [smoke alarm beeping] 
LAURA: (VO) We repeat. We are absolutely not any sort of help... anything. To learn more, visit beacon.tv, or find it on your App Store. 
MARISHA: Tomorrow feels a little brighter now that I have Beacon. (loud crunching) 

Part II[]
MATT: And welcome back, including the team. Come back to the table and we can jump into this chaos here. (oohing) (oohing) (babbling) 
MATT: (laughs) 
SAM: Whoa. Whoa. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay, okay. Whoa! How does the ground look like that? 
LIAM: The miniature has changed. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
LIAM: The miniature has changed! 
LAURA: Wait, wait, wait. 
SAM: Who is that? Is that Ash? 
LAURA: He already changed? He already changed?! 
LIAM: Yeah, he's-- 
ASHLEY: Wait, who changed? 
SAM: Is that Ashton? 
LIAM: Ludi. Luda. 
ASHLEY: No. 
MATT: No. 
ASHLEY: Who's the big boy? 
ROBBIE: No. 
LAURA: That's Luda! 
MATT: It's Ludinus as the Exaltant. 
SAM: Whoa. 
TRAVIS: No! No, you son of a bitch! Change him back! 
LAURA: Bitch can't fly, he's grounded. 
TRAVIS: Counterspell! 
MATT: He's floating an inch off the ground and is like-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah, he can't go anywhere, you guys. 
LAURA: Oh, my gosh. 
SAM: Oh my gosh. 
TRAVIS: Look at Ashton's mini. What the fuck? 
LAURA: Okay, so there's-- 
TALIESIN: I powered up. 
LAURA: So, wait, does that mean there's four-- One, two, three-- 
TALIESIN: Have you never seen my powered up--? 
LAURA: Are there all that many layers of wards we have to-- Never mind, we can't know this yet, can we? 
MATT: There are multiple-- 
ASHLEY: I bet. 
MATT: Multiple wards through the Hallowed Cage. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Why does the ground look like that? 
LIAM: Oh man. 
TRAVIS: This is so cool. 
SAM: Wait, is the ground flickering? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, the ground is changing. 
MARISHA: It's the gobo up top. 
MATT: Well, it's the gobo hitting-- 
TRAVIS: Don't break the mystery! You don't have to describe it! Theater of the mind! 
MARISHA: I mean, it's magic! 
TALIESIN: This map is changing! 
LIAM: These parts are-- (laughter) 
SAM: He's got an extra card in his sleeve. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: It's a string. You can see the string. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: Well, friends, let's go ahead and roll initiative. 
LIAM: No! 
TRAVIS: Whoo! Whoo! 
MARISHA: Okay. 
SAM: We're rolling for initiative? 
ROBBIE: Already? 
SAM: We're rolling for initiative, brought to you by Wizkids and their Tastes of Exandria charms available for pre-order now. Discover some of Exandria's tastiest treats. Show off your love of Scanlan's hand pies, pocket bacon and Strongjaw Ale with these 11 unique charms. Pre-order today at your local game store or wizkids.io/tastes. 
TRAVIS: Tastes. 
MATT: 25 to 20? 
LIAM: Natural 20 for 25. (oohing) 
MATT: Dang! 
LAURA: Orym! 
TRAVIS: 21. 
ASHLEY: So, Orym first. 
TRAVIS: Tinies first. (laughs) 
LAURA: He's so tiny. 
ROBBIE: Lead the way. 
ASHLEY: Orym. 
LIAM: Okay, go by height. Up from there. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Chet. 
LIAM: Fearne, you're last. 
ASHLEY: I mean... 
MATT: 20 to 15? 
ROBBIE and LAURA: 16. 
SAM: 19. 
TALIESIN: 16. 
MARISHA: 17. 
TRAVIS: Whoa. Whoa. 
ROBBIE: Whoa, whoa, whoa. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, let's-- 
LIAM: Maybe also seven and 13 and a half. 
MATT: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: Braius, Laudna? 
LAURA: Rollies. 
SAM: Whoa, whoa, whoa. There's three 16s, I think. 
LAURA: Wait, who's all 16? 
MARISHA: Braius, Laudna-- 
ROBBIE: Three-way 16? 
LIAM: Let's go, three-way. 
LAURA: Three-way rolly. 
LIAM: Three-way. 
ROBBIE: One, two, three, hi-yah! 
ROBBIE and MARISHA: Aw. 
LIAM: Aw. 
TALIESIN: 18. 
ROBBIE: Five. 
MARISHA: (dejected) One. 
LAURA: Get it out. Get it out now! 
MATT: All right, so Ash-- 
ASHLEY: So, Braius, Ashton-- 
TALIESIN: Ash? 
ROBBIE: No, Braius, Laudna, Ashton. 
LAURA: No. Yeah, Braius, Laudna, Ash. 
TALIESIN: Okay, Braius, Laudna, Ash. 
ASHLEY: Oh, that ruins my whole page. 
LAURA: Dorian. 
SAM: Imogen. 
ASHLEY: I wrote Ashton down. Goddamn it. 
MARISHA: So, Ashton, Dorian, Fearne? 
ASHLEY: Laudna, Ash. 
ROBBIE: No. 
LAURA: You are last, Fearne? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I'm last. I rolled a-- Nine. 
TRAVIS: This is the most quick-- 
SAM: Classic Ash. 
TRAVIS: -- initiative ever. 
MATT: All right, and then Fearne, what'd you get? 
ASHLEY: I got a nine. 
MATT: Got you. 
TRAVIS: So, Orym, Chet, Braius, Laudna, Ashton, Dorian-- 
LAURA: Imogen. 
TRAVIS: Imogen. 
ROBBIE: Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Shit. 
MATT: Well, top of this round, we have Orym with Chet on deck. So with-- 
SAM: We killing this guy? 
MATT: -- Ludinus now focused on the first boundary barrier right there. 
TRAVIS: The boundary! 
MATT: The footsteps of you all approaching into the chamber and coordinating quickly as you rush in, just barely acknowledges you from behind. What are you doing? 
LIAM: I think I want to honor what I said before when I thought I was closer, so I'll run 30 feet forward. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: What, was I avoiding a rock there? I can't step on the blue. Is that the deal? 
MATT: No, you can step on the blue. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: I was just moving him forward, direct line. 
TRAVIS: He was trying to do you a solid. 
MATT: Yeah, those are veins of the glass. 
LAURA: Pretty! 
TRAVIS: Sick, Matt. This is sick! 
LAURA: It's really pretty. 
TRAVIS: Fuck! 
LIAM: I'm going to go another, I'm going to use my action now to move a little closer. I'll go-- ♪ Get a little closer ♪ 15, maybe? MARISHA, ASHLEY, 
LAURA: ♪ Get a little closer ♪ 
LIAM: Using Seedling, I will thrust the sword out and a vine will shoot out towards that staff. I'm going to attempt to yank it the fuck out of his hand. 
MATT: Okay, well, it's floating in the air next to him. 
LIAM: I will try to grab it. 
MATT: So try and grab it and pull it-- 
TRAVIS: Oh, it's just floating. 
MATT: -- with the psychic power that is emanating from the recently, temporarily Exaltant Ludinus Da'leth is going to attempt to hold it in place. 
LAURA: Mama had a lot of spells. 
MATT: So we're going to competitively roll off. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: Or it's a saving throw, isn't it? 
LIAM: It's a save. I don't have a spell. 
MATT: Well, no, I'd say on this one would be a-- 
LIAM: I think the sword lists a spell save DC of 17. 
MATT: Okay, 17, so I'll roll-- 
LIAM: So, he'll roll. 
MATT: -- and add his spellcasting modifier and try-- 
LIAM: Which is 27. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
LAURA: Yeah, his modifier's 17. 
LIAM: It's a six. 
MATT: That's going to fail. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
ROBBIE: Whoa! 
MATT: So the staff-- (whoosh) You pull it back into your hand. 
LAURA: Ooh! 
ROBBIE: Whoa! 
TRAVIS: And he's down. 
MARISHA: I know. Now what? 
SAM: He can't do magic. 
ROBBIE: I was about to say, most competent person. Yeah, it's done. 
TALIESIN: The dog has caught the car. 
LIAM: Currently, he has maybe-- (laughter) 
LIAM: -- 30% less options, but he could also yank it back. That was movement, then action-- 
MATT: Action and then-- 
LIAM: I'm out of gas. 
MATT: Yeah. 
LIAM: I've got half of my movement left. I'll dance back 15 feet the direction that I came. 
MATT: You got it. All right, cool. 
LIAM: Actually, I will go on a diagonal this way instead. 
MATT: This way? Okay, there you go. 
SAM: Will you dance with the cane? 
LAURA: Yeah, so you're not straight-- 
MATT: All right, that finishes your go. Chet, you're up. 
TRAVIS: Fucking, you just walked up and aced his fucking spear on the first move! Shit! I run up to protect Orym! 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Remember you have 15 feet. 
MATT: All right, so you rush 15 feet. 
TRAVIS: But I think in the time that's passed, I don't think I'm a werewolf anymore, but I can do it twice a day, so I'll (bubbling frothing) and come back out. 
MATT: Okay, sure, no worries. 
MARISHA: Always a werewolf in your heart. 
TRAVIS: On the inside and in my pants. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: I will step in front of Orym. 
MATT: Okay, movement of? 
TRAVIS: 40 feet. 
MATT: 40 feet, yeah, you can definitely get up here in front of him or here if you want. 
TRAVIS: How far away-- Five, 10, 15, 20, 25. 
LAURA: I did. 
TRAVIS: That's more than 30 feet, right? 
MATT: He's a little more than 30 feet from you, yeah. 
LAURA: Wait. If I didn't use it give it back! 
TRAVIS: How much of my 40 did I use to get in front of Orym? Do I have 10 left? 
MATT: It would've been 35 to get there. So you can do 40 and get there. 
TRAVIS: I don't think that'll put me within 30 of Luda, though. 
LAURA: It might. It might. That might be within 30. 
TRAVIS: It's okay, I'm going to take out the Turmoil, the scythe, and I'm going to use my bonus action to create, slice it up the side of my leg and lightning-- (crackling) arcs up and down the side of it. 
MATT: Arcing across it? (whoosh) Awesome. 
TRAVIS: For my attack, I will, fuck it! I'm going to cast Shatter towards Ludinus. 
LIAM: Shatter! 
MATT: (impact) Constitution saving throw? 
TRAVIS: It is-- As soon as I pull it up. (hums) ♪ I'm sure it's ♪ something really high ♪ ♪ Like a ♪ (farts) Constitution, "must make a constitution saving throw." 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Of what? 
MATT: The DC should be on the weapon. 
TRAVIS: It really should. 
LAURA and MARISHA: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: Oh, wait. Constitution 14. (laughs) 
MATT: 25, so succeeds. It takes half damage. So you can roll damage on that. 
TRAVIS: So close. Okay. 3d... Swear to god it doesn't say-- 4d8. Oh, it's so powerful. 
TALIESIN: 15 feet on that plane. 
TRAVIS: 15. 
LAURA: What? 
TALIESIN: Pass down a reminder of 15 feet and see if we can-- 
TRAVIS: Seven. 29 points of thunder damage. 
MATT: Reduced to half. 
LAURA: We have to be within-- 
TRAVIS: To half. That's right. 
LAURA: -- 15 feet of each other-- 
MATT: So, 14? 
LAURA: -- for that short rest bubble. 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
MATT: All right. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
MATT: (giant crackle) This massive sound of cracking air detonates in this space and you watch as bits of nearby frayed and jagged glass at the edges of this interior layer of the pillar splinters off and sends shards and bits of rock flying everywhere. Parts of the nearby rock columns crack at the impact and it echoes and you hear the sound of the blast of this arcane detonation echo down the hall behind where you came from. Ludinus takes the brunt of it and just keeps looking straight ahead. 
TRAVIS: Amazing, any non-magical items in the area also take damage, but I don't think he has any of those. 
MATT: Yeah, he rolls with a lot of magic items. 
TRAVIS: Fair. That's my turn! 
MATT: All right, finishing Chetney's go, it is now Ludinus's turn. 
SAM: Ah, fuck, fuck. 
TALIESIN: Good to know. 
MATT: So Ludinus, who is facing the edge of this, is going to, "(sighs)," turn around-- 
ROBBIE: Uh-oh. 
MARISHA: Come on, baby. 
SAM: Bright eyes. 
MARISHA: Let's go! 
ROBBIE: You sure about that? 
MATT: "We really could have worked together. But for now, just watch," and he snaps his fingers. 
ROBBIE: No. 
MATT: As he snaps his fingers, you watch as this faint, grayish magical energy flicker around his hand, like a starscape seems to spill, some sort of-- 
LAURA: Counterspell, Counterspell. 
LIAM: He's got doodymancy? 
TRAVIS: Fucking awesome. Fucking awesome! 
MATT: I mean, the Cerberus has been studying it for-- 
LAURA: Come on! 
ASHLEY: What if he's opening the asshole? 
LAURA: He can't. She's not within 80 feet. You can't. 
MARISHA: No, I'm not within range. 
MATT: "Even the voids of old are still hungry," and as he snaps his finger-- 
LAURA: Wasn't that enough time for us to move out of the way of something with his talking? 
TRAVIS: No, we're we're enraptured by his words. 
ASHLEY: Maybe he's opening the geometry. 
MATT: He casts 9th-level Ravenous Void. 
TRAVIS: What?! 
LAURA: (screams) 
TRAVIS: Did you say 9th-level?! 
ROBBIE: What is that? 
ASHLEY: What is a Ravenous Void? 
LAURA: (screams) 
MATT: You watch as-- 
TRAVIS: Oh, no! 
ASHLEY: Matthew! 
MATT: -- a black sphere of lightless destruction (expanding rumble)-- 
LIAM: Oh! 
MATT: -- apparates in the back chamber. 
ASHLEY: What's that? What's that? 
MATT: All of the air in the room (forceful suction) starts pulling towards it. 
LIAM: Black hole. 
MATT: A singularity is conjured across the end of this room. 
ASHLEY: Whoa! Cool! 
MATT: You watch as anything untethered in the area immediately gets pulled across and annihilated within its dark lightless expanse. 
TRAVIS: It's cool. Orym and I got this, you guys. 
LAURA: Can you not move-- 
TRAVIS: The two melee guys got this. 
ROBBIE: He's kicking our ass with math! 
TRAVIS: (laughs) Yeah, and physics! 
LAURA: Can we roll a save? 
MATT: At the moment-- 
TRAVIS: Holy shit. 
MATT: -- no. 
TRAVIS: No?! 
MATT: That's going to end his turn. 
ROBBIE: Are you in this--? 
MARISHA: I guess so. 
LAURA: Wait, he's after Chet? 
SAM: Wait. Nothing happens to him? 
MARISHA: Nothing happened? 
LAURA: Not yet, it's going to do it as soon as we-- 
MATT: (whooshes) It opens up in that space. 
TRAVIS: Oh my god. He just brought the Akira bubble. 
MATT: All of you feel this extreme gravity begin pulling you towards it. 
LIAM: Chet, maybe we're just Vanguard now. 
MATT: He turns back around and starts putting his energy back towards the chamber there. 
TRAVIS: I can run. 
MATT: He's also going to run his thumb along a ring on his hand and as he does, it flashes and you watch as his exposed skin suddenly glows with a series of glyphs and runes and his skin seems to take a darker obsidian look for a second before it fades back into his skin. He has some sort of protective-- 
LAURA: God, I hate him. 
MATT: -- essence that's added to his form. 
LIAM: Invincibility? 
MATT: That's going to finish his turn. He used his action, not on the barrier. 
TRAVIS: Don't smirk so much. Your dimples are killing us. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Stop it. 
MATT and LIAM: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: It's never good! 
ROBBIE: That's his opening move! 
TRAVIS: It's never good! 
MATT: Braius, beginning of your turn. Make a saving throw for me. 
LIAM: Singularity is-- 
MARISHA: I knew, I knew it! 
LAURA: Immediately. 
SAM: A save... 
MARISHA: I can't beat this. 
LAURA: No, I'm not going to beat it either. 
TRAVIS: Not with that attitude, you undead wench. 
SAM: 22? 
MATT: 22 just saves. 
SAM and LIAM: Oh! 
TRAVIS: Ooh! 
MATT: You feel the gravity pulling you in and you hunker down. 
LAURA: I think it's impossible for me to save. 
MATT: All terrain within 100 feet of the sphere is considered rough terrain. 
TRAVIS and LIAM: 100 feet? 
LIAM: The map? 
MATT: Yeah. 
LIAM: The whole map? 
MATT: Well, most of it. 
MARISHA: I'm about to get sucked into this fucking black hole. 
MATT: It's going to be-- About up to-- Up to here. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Maybe it accidentally takes us to the other side of the lattice work. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: This is not mini golf, man. 
TRAVIS: Really nice. 
MATT: So Braius, you are-- 
TRAVIS: He wanted to continue the convo. 
MATT: You can still take your turn. You're not moved anywhere. You basically hunker down. But your movement is halved while you're within the radius of the sphere. 
LAURA: Save me. 
SAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: This is a fucking bonkers-ass move. 
SAM: Okay. 
LAURA: If you don't get over there-- 
TALIESIN: I'm making a beeline. 
TRAVIS: Look how fucking happy you are. (laughs) 
SAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: Oh my god. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, make them squirm. Make them squirm. 
SAM: Am I within 120 feet of him? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: No, I was within 120, right? 
MATT: Before you walked in. You are-- Let's see here. 
LIAM: I mean, just going by the spell range. 
MATT: 85. You are about 135 feet from him. 
SAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: You can move up. 
LAURA: You can get there. You can get there. 
MATT: 130. 
SAM: 130, okay. 
LIAM: Ruidusborn are in 120. 
LAURA: Yes. 
SAM: But my speed is halved. 
MATT: Correct. 
LIAM: Wow. 
SAM: So I can only move 15 feet. 10 forward, five back. If I move 10 forward, do something and then move five back, will I be five feet within Laudna? 
MATT: Yes, you would. 
SAM: Okay. Okay, I will move-- 
MARISHA: Help. 
SAM: Yes. First, first-- 
MARISHA: Yes? 
SAM: Bonus action. Inspiration. You've got this. 
MARISHA: Okay. Oh, shit. 
SAM: You've got this, dead one. 
MARISHA: Strength is my dump stat! 
SAM: I know it. Then I will walk 10 feet forward because that's all I can walk. Bringing you within 120 feet of Ludinus. 
LIAM: 10. 
SAM: I will cast-- Silence-- Around Ludinus. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
SAM: In case he has any verbal components of spells, right? Maybe that will take some away? 
MATT: You cast Silence? 
SAM: Silence. 
MATT: He's going to Counterspell. 
SAM: He can't. He's too far away. 
MATT: With Spell Sniper, it doubles the range. 
ALL: Oh! 
SAM: Okay, so, wait, before you-- 
MARISHA: Not with-- 
LAURA: Reactions? 
MARISHA: It's got to be an attack spell. Not with-- 
MATT: Let me see. 
MARISHA: Not with Counterspell. I don't think so. 
LAURA: Because you have Spell Sniper, don't you? 
MARISHA: I do, unless the base-- 
LIAM: I do not think it's an attack spell. 
MARISHA: Because my Counterspell, I also have Spell Sniper, is 60 feet. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
SAM: But he's also Ludinus. 
MARISHA: But he's also Ludinus. 
MATT: Let me see here. 
TALIESIN: Which means he may have a feat that already doubles his-- 
LAURA: But even doubled is 120, right? 
LIAM: Teleport is not an attack spell and we all know-- 
SAM: Oh my god, we're getting out the book. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah, but look at what a pretty book it is. It's the pretty one. 
LIAM: Scanlan Counterspelled Teleport. That's not an attack spell. 
LAURA: No, no, no. 
SAM: For sure. 
LAURA: But Counterspell isn't an attack spell. 
SAM: I think the Spell Sniper-- 
LAURA: Only works-- 
LIAM: Oh, from the sniping. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
LIAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: Because Spell Sniper-- 
SAM: Goddamn it! 
ROBBIE: Do you want it? Just ask for it! Just ask for it, Sam! 
SAM: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Also, whatever, man, it's Ludinus, so whatever. 
MATT: I know, but I just want to clarify. 
ASHLEY: ♪ Counterspell ♪ 
LIAM: Wow, that's crunchy rules. 
TRAVIS: I thought it was-- 
LIAM: Wow. 
TRAVIS: -- comeuppance from the end of campaign one, when Scanlan-- 
MARISHA: When you cast a spell that requires you to make an attack roll, the spell's range is doubled. Your ranged spell attacks ignore half cover and three-quarters quarter. Three-quarters cover. Fuck me. 
LIAM: Wow. 
SAM: Oh boy! The book and the phone! 
LIAM: That seems right. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
LIAM: Yeah. That's some Dawnfather talk right there. 
MARISHA: I didn't mean to throw us off. 
MATT: No, it's good. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: I-I-I... 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
SAM: I'm using my action to cast it. Here's your inspiration. 
MARISHA: Ooh, thank you. 
LAURA: Is he going to allow it? Is he going to do it? Is he going to allow it? 
MARISHA: Did I just piss off the DM? 
MATT: No. 
MARISHA: Should I have just let this go? 
MATT: No, I'm making an adjustment. No, it's good. 
TRAVIS: He's going to kill us faster now. 
ROBBIE: The DM. Your husband? 
MARISHA: Yeah, well, you know. 
TRAVIS: Something else goes off? 
SAM: No, he said Silence goes up. Okay. Then I will use my remaining movement to walk back towards Laudna, so that I can be within five feet of her. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: And that's it. 
MARISHA: Okay. Okay. 
MATT: That finishes your turn, Braius? 
SAM: That's all I can do. Bonus action. 
LIAM: Get away from the door. 
SAM: Huh? 
LIAM: That means he's got to get away from the door. 
SAM: I know. 
MATT: All right, finishing Braius' go, Laudna, you're up. Laudna, make a strength saving throw for me. 
ASHLEY: Oh god. 
TRAVIS: Don't fuck this up. 
MATT: Actually, you start your turn within the radius of the sphere. So, first, you immediately take 5d10 force damage. 
SAM: Wait, I didn't take that. 
MATT: You weren't in the radius. 
SAM: Oh. 
LAURA: She's in it. It was right over her. 
SAM: Jesus. 
ROBBIE: 5d10? 
MATT: You take 22 points of force damage and make a strength saving throw for me. 
SAM: Hold on. This is a spell? 
MATT: Huh? I mean, this is the radius of the spell, yeah. 
SAM: Anyone within 10 feet of me is resistant to spell damage. 
MATT: Okay, so yeah, you take half that. 
LAURA: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Whoo! 
MARISHA: What, what, what?? 
MATT: 11. 
LAURA: So, 11. 
LIAM: Down to 11. 
MARISHA: 22, so I would've taken 11 damage. 
MATT: Correct. 
LAURA: That's force damage, you said? 
MATT: Force damage, yes. 
LAURA: Okay. 
LIAM: Wow, wow, wow, wow, wow. 
TALIESIN: Good to know. 
MARISHA: Okay and now a strength saving throw. 
SAM: Yes, but anyone within five feet of me has plus four to their saving throws. 
ASHLEY: Whoa. 
MARISHA: Oh! So it's a plus two. Roll high, bitch. 
TALIESIN: Oh, that's what that was. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Don't reload your apps. 
LAURA and MARISHA: Oh. 
MATT: That's funny. 
MARISHA: It's bad. 
MATT: Well, no, because I did a search if those would interact and it was like, yeah, these really do. I just realized it's Google's AI that's, once again, absolutely wrong. Fuck AI. (laughter) 
MATT: Always wrong. 
SAM: So does he Counterspell it? 
MATT: No, he does not. 
SAM: Oh okay. 
TALIESIN: Hmm. 
MARISHA: 15. 
MATT: 15. 
SAM: Wait. With the Inspiration? 
MARISHA: Oh, well. 
MATT: He just succeeded with a 22. 
SAM: Oh. 
LIAM: So you can't get there. 
SAM: That's with my plus four? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. But make it-- 
MARISHA: I have minus two to my strength. I have strength of six. 
TRAVIS: Make it really hurt. Just roll a six and make it really hurt. 
TALIESIN: If it's a d6, Then you're fine. 
MARISHA: No. 
TALIESIN: No. 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: No. 
MARISHA: 17. 
SAM: No. Save the inspiration for later. 
LIAM: Yeah. Because it was a 22, so they should only get to 21. 
LAURA: Yeah, you couldn't have saved. 
LIAM: It was impossible to save that roll. 
MARISHA: Well, he just said "you have inspiration," so I rolled it. 
LAURA: No, don't use it. 
ROBBIE: You're in a black hole. 
MARISHA: All right. 
TALIESIN: You could have made it. 
TRAVIS: You won't be able to use it in the Abyssal void. 
LAURA: It's absolutely just you and me. 
LIAM: Mathematically impossible. 
MATT: Laudna is pulled into the center of the void and is restrained. 
SAM: Do we see her? Is she gone? 
MATT: You see her just-- Actually, you hear her next to you. But this blackened void space around you. 
TALIESIN: Shit. Fuck this bugger. 
LAURA: We've seen it? 
TRAVIS: In the event horizon, stretching. 
MARISHA: Yes, for sure. 
TRAVIS: (stretchy gloops) 
LAURA: (slurps) 
TRAVIS: Doing the McConaughey "Inception." No. "Interstellar" cry. 
TALIESIN: What do we have here? 
MATT: Yeah. So the sphere itself is the density of it, you can still see her, but now she's pulled. It's this darkened shadow sphere. As she gets into the center, you can barely see her now being crushed into-- 
LAURA: (screams) 
SAM: Oh! 
LAURA: Laudna! 
ROBBIE: No! 
MARISHA: Oh, it hurts. 
MATT: You still take your turn. 
MARISHA: I can still take my turn. 
TALIESIN: Smoke 'em if you got 'em. 
LAURA: You just can't get out of the sphere and you take 5d10 force damage every time you're-- 
TRAVIS: Do something cool. 
MARISHA: This is magical darkness? 
LAURA: Fuck! 
SAM: That's not good. 
MARISHA: I have darkvision. Can I see through this? 
MATT: Yeah. 
MARISHA: I can? 
MATT: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Okay. So I can see Ludinus. 
MATT: Yes. 
MARISHA: Which direction is he facing? Towards me or is he facing towards the wall? 
MATT: He's facing towards the wall. 
TRAVIS: He's turned around towards us. 
MARISHA: Towards the wall? 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
MARISHA: I want to-- one, I'm going to do my Form of Dread to gain back some temporary hit points here. Okay. Okay. Seven. What? 
TALIESIN: It's a 20-foot radius. 
MARISHA: Oh yeah. It's a bubble. Okay. Form of Dread. I'm going to fire off three of my Eldritch Blasts. Can I try to aim for the back of his neck? 
MATT: If you'd like to, yeah. 
LAURA: Oof. Yeah. 
MATT: He has a higher AC against that point. You are restrained, so your attack rolls are at disadvantage. 
MARISHA: They're at disadvantage. 
MATT: Correct. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 
TRAVIS: She's also sucked into the bubble. 
TALIESIN: Okay, okay. 
MATT: Mind you, you can take an action to make a strength check against the DC to break free but it's your action. 
TRAVIS: But your strength sucks ass. 
MARISHA: My strength sucks ass. I can't get out of this. Did he just make it at 22? Does it matter? 
MATT: He just made it at a 22. 
TRAVIS: Just made it. 
MARISHA: Yeah. There's literally no way. I have to roll a natural 20. 
ROBBIE: That's a bummer. 
TRAVIS: Why weren't you lifting in between sessions? 
MARISHA: I'm made of paper. We know this. 
MATT: By the way, a creature can spend its action to try and make that save to help itself or another creature break free of the gravity. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: So if somebody else wanted to go next to Laudna and then use their action to try and-- 
LAURA: Pull her out? 
MATT: -- make a strength-- 
TRAVIS: I'm coming! 
LAURA: (laughs) You're so far away. 
MARISHA: God, that is so-- 
TALIESIN: I'm coming. 
LAURA: Easy to say. (laughs) 
SAM: Matt, because of reasons, is Ashton considered a large creature right now? 
MATT: Ashton is considered a large creature. 
MARISHA: Higher DC. What to do, what to do? 
MATT: Do you want to aim for the back of his neck? 
MARISHA: Yeah, I said it. I'm going to do it. I'm going to see what happens here. 
MATT: Let's go. 
MARISHA: With disadvantage. This sucks, but here we go. 
MATT: So is this the Eldritch Blast? 
MARISHA: Huh? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: It's the Eldritch Blast? 
MARISHA: Eldritch Blast. 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: Okay. So once again, first hit is going to be... Jesus, my brain tonight. 
TRAVIS: 18. 
MARISHA: 18. Thank you. 
MATT: First one misses. 
MARISHA: Second one. It's cocked. Oh! 
TRAVIS: Oh. One of them's a nat 20. 
MARISHA: It was cocked. That's going to be 21 to hit. 
MATT: Misses. 
TRAVIS: Come on, come on. Oh, oh, oh, oh. 
MARISHA: Okay, okay. 29 to hit. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: That hits. (cheering) 
TRAVIS: Hey. Nice. 
ASHLEY: Damn! 
TRAVIS: Let's go, sucked into the void. 
MARISHA: It's a 17 and an 18. 
MATT: He's faced away and concentrating on these barricades towards the back of where the energy is currently crawling up the back of his neck, his hair blowing in the air. You get this momentary flash at some sort of a dark knotted bit of flesh at the base of his neck and skull, right around the place where the Quintessence Array would be. 
LIAM: He's got an extra penis. 
MARISHA: Okay. So yes, I can feel my bones-- (laughter) 
MARISHA: -- crushing against the gravity, but I'm going to try and embrace it and let it steady myself as I fire and I will do... (huffs) Fucking weak-ass. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Fucking shit. Seven damage. 
MATT: Plus an additional 8d6 necrotic damage if you don't mind. Go ahead and roll that. 
SAM: What? 
MARISHA: 8d6 necrotic damage? 
LAURA: For hitting that spot? 
MARISHA: For hitting that spot? 
TRAVIS: Oh, it's like one those little cysts that you bust with an encyclopedia. 
LAURA: Ah! Yeah. 
TRAVIS: You're just like "whack!" (explosion) 
TALIESIN: Who has an encyclopedia? 
SAM: What did you just say? A cyst? 
LAURA: A cyst. Haven't you ever seen those cysts? 
MARISHA: If I needed to, can I Empower? 
SAM: With an encyclopedia? 
LAURA: With a big book. 
MATT: No, because this isn't your actual spell you're doing this-- 
TRAVIS: People get cysts on the top of their hand and just go (slams). 
LIAM: (groans) Gross. 
TRAVIS: It's terrible. It hurts. 
LIAM: Gross. 
MARISHA: 11, 12, 13. 
TRAVIS: It comes back like a year later. 
MARISHA: 15 plus... 
LAURA: (whispers) I want to go that way. I want to go there. 
MARISHA: 19, 25, 26 damage, necrotic damage on top of that seven. 
MATT: Seven? You rolled a two plus your five. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
ROBBIE: I can't take-- take Ashton. 
MATT: All right. So you fire it off, (whooshes) whack! Hits the back of it and with the impact, you see him slump forward against the wall. And this burning cyst itself-- 
TRAVIS: Oh shit. 
MATT: -- like a weird arcane smoke drifts from the back of his neck. and like-- "Ah!" 
TRAVIS: Ooh. 
MATT: Rubs it for a second and looks back at you, furious. 
TRAVIS: Ooh! 
SAM: Ooh! Nice. 
MATT: Let me see if he maintains concentration. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: He does have advantage on this. 
TRAVIS: Fail it! 
MATT: Yeah, that's more than enough. So those were two, right? 
SAM: Three. 
MARISHA: Three. 
MATT: That was all three? 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: That's right. 
TRAVIS: It's only one hit. 
MATT: You're right. All right. That's your action? 
MARISHA: Bonus action Form of Dread. 
MATT: Can't move. 
TRAVIS: Look real creepy in the dark. 
MARISHA: I look really creepy as I get spaghettified as I see fucking spacetime. 
TALIESIN: We can't see into that right now? 
MATT: You can see into it. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
MATT: It's very heavily shadowed but you can still see the shape in there and right where Laudna is currently sitting, this black crushing singularity. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: That finishes your turn. 
MARISHA: Yeah, man. (laughs) 
MATT: Ashton, start of your turn. Make a strength saving throw. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
MARISHA: Can't even bamf out of this. 
TALIESIN: Strength save. Come on, don't suck. 18? 
MATT: No. Are you raging? 
TALIESIN: Not yet because I needed to have-- Because we started with this, but I'm about to be raging. 
MATT: Unfortunately. It is a failure. You (whoosh) 
ROBBIE: Oh, come on. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
MATT: -- with Laudna. 
TALIESIN: Cool. 
MATT: There you are restrained and you take-- 
TALIESIN: I'm not restrained, I believe. Actually, hold on. 
MATT: You do take-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to take it. 
MATT: 25 points of force damage. 
TALIESIN: That's fine. One second. 
TRAVIS: ♪ You're not going to take it ♪ 
ASHLEY: No! 
MARISHA: ♪ Gonna take it ♪ 
TALIESIN: I'm trying to think. No, I'm restrained, it's not prone or grapple. Okay. 
SAM: So as his action on his turn, can he throw Laudna out of there or no? 
LAURA: Or hold her while he tries to get out? 
MATT: Well, right now he can't move. So he can spend his action to try and free himself from this form and then run out, or use his action to try and free her from it and on her next turn she can-- 
LAURA: But can he free her if he's not free? 
MATT: He can. He just has disadvantage on the roll because he is restrained. 
SAM: ♪ Free, free ♪ 
MARISHA: But he got sucked in. Was he on the edge? 
TRAVIS: You can help somebody while you were drowning, too. 
LAURA: Yeah, that's true. 
TALIESIN: So if I break free-- 
LAURA: But you can rage. 
TALIESIN: -- can I grab her and run-- 
MARISHA: Well, I also would hate for him-- 
TALIESIN: -- if I break it with my action? Well, no because I'll need an action to-- 
MATT: No, because she's helping, you need an action to do that. 
TALIESIN: -- because she's helping. But I can break her and leave myself in there. 
MATT: You can. 
TALIESIN: Okay. All right. First of all, let's rage. 
MARISHA: Maybe. I don't really have... 
SAM: We'd have to roll really high. 
MARISHA: What I don't want to have happen here is he tosses my ass out-- 
TALIESIN: Here we go. 
MARISHA: -- and then next round. I get sucked back in again. I don't want us to have us waste time. 
TALIESIN: All right, here we go. 
TRAVIS: You go us fucked up, Matt Mercer. 
TALIESIN: What do we got? Hey. Fuck, yes. 
MARISHA: He's rolling a concentration check. 
TALIESIN: So I am still stuck in here. I'm going full rainbow sparkle. I'm suddenly surrounded by all sorts of crazy-ass sparks coming off. 
TRAVIS: We can't see it, but yeah. 
TALIESIN: No, you can. It's like a weird sad thing. 
MARISHA: You might get sucked into black holes! 
TALIESIN: I know. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: Debatable. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Okay, so the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to try and-- I'm grappling you or I'm grappling me first? I'm trying to figure that out. I'm going to drop you? 
TRAVIS: She on deck. 
TALIESIN: So that's a strength check, if I recall? Strength check to ungrapple her to get her out of that? 
MATT: Correct, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Okay, so that's-- 
TRAVIS: Saving throw or just regular? 
MATT: No, this is a strength check. 
TALIESIN: Okay. So I have advantage on strength. 
MATT: You do, you add your strength modifier. 
TRAVIS: What's your mod there, T? 
TALIESIN: Hmm? My mod for my strength modifier is six. Okay, no. Okay, this won't work for that. So rolling. 
SAM: Spellcasting ability. What's your spellcasting ability? 
ASHLEY: That's my-- 
TALIESIN: 16. 
SAM: What is your-- Wisdom. 
ASHLEY: Oh, oh, oh, oh. Yeah, wisdom. 
TALIESIN: And I can't move. 
MARISHA: What are you trying to do to, T? 
TALIESIN: I was trying to let you out but I did not roll high enough for that to happen. No, that's not what I had. I think I'm fucked now. I think that's what I got. 
MATT: Yeah, that's your turn. 
TALIESIN: That's my turn. 
MATT: Okay. Dorian, you're up, with Imogen on deck, Beginning of your turn, make a strength saving throw. 
ROBBIE: Strength saving throw? Oh boy. 
TRAVIS: Come on, D. 
ROBBIE: Come on, big boy! Fuck! 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LAURA: Well. (laughter) 
MARISHA: What the fuck? 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Oh boy. Oh boy. 
LAURA: You know what? 
TRAVIS: Form a colony of a life raft of ants. 
MARISHA: Yes. Just float on the water. 
TRAVIS: Hold on. 
MATT: Dorian, you take-- 
ROBBIE: Sick. 
MATT: 23 points of force damage. 
ROBBIE: Cool. 
LAURA: If only Braius had been pulled in there, we all would've had been resistant. 
MARISHA: Resist. 
SAM: I can go in there for you guys. 
LAURA: No. 
MATT: You are restrained. 
SAM: I mean, it needs a beefy boy. 
TRAVIS: What does your god tell you to do, Braius? 
LIAM: (chuckles) 
SAM: Everything's going according to plan. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Yeah, if anyone wanted to get us the fuck out of here, that'd be great. 
ROBBIE: Oh boy. All right. Restrained just means I can't move, right? I can still take action and stuff like that? 
MATT: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
MARISHA: Man, oh man. 
ROBBIE: Am I within reach of Laudna? Since this is a sinkhole. 
MATT: You all got pulled, you're all crammed together like (groans). 
ROBBIE: I'm touching her? I guess, technically I'm touching her shoulder. 
MARISHA: Your elbow is in my tit! 
ROBBIE: This party sucks. You want to get out of here? 
MARISHA: Yes, please! 
ROBBIE: I'm going to cast Dimension Door. 
MATT: Okay. Where are you going? 
MARISHA: Come on, baby, let's go. Let's go! 
ROBBIE: Let's go! 
ASHLEY: Nice. 
TALIESIN: Just the two of you? I can't get in on that, can I? 
LAURA: No. It's just-- And he'd have to be the same size. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. That's why I asked if you're-- That's because of you letting me know if you're a big 'un or not. 
TALIESIN: I'm all good. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. Beep zwip! Out of trouble. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Up, up and away. I got 500 feet. Can you put us-- 
LAURA: Get up there. 
ROBBIE: But within spell range, can you put us up on that pillar within range of Luda? Can you put us up high? Tippy toppies. 
LAURA: I think the tippy toppies is the top of the cavern. 
ROBBIE: Oh, that's the top. 
MATT: The top of the cavern, yeah. 
ROBBIE: Oh okay. 
MATT: Neither of you are restrained now. 
ROBBIE: That's nice. 
LIAM: Out of that 25? 
ROBBIE: So can you sneak us behind that back pillar right there, that glowing one? 
MATT: Right here? 
ROBBIE: Oh, no. A little further front. Just the pillar itself, the glowing one. 
LAURA: Here's a good question. 
LIAM: Just make you more than 20 feet out from Silence. 
LAURA: Oh right. 20 feet out from Silence. How far does it look like things are getting pulled into the black hole? 
MATT: You know what? Make a perception. Yeah. A 100 feet from the outside of the radius. 
LAURA: So you have to be 20 feet away from the Silence. Yeah, should be there, right. 
ROBBIE: Out of his range, but inside of ours. 
MARISHA: So maybe around here, you think? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: On those other rocks? 
ROBBIE: What check did you want? 
LIAM: Diagonally? 
LAURA: Yeah. On the other rocks. 
ROBBIE: Perception? 
LIAM: If you're on the lowest step-- 
MATT: Yeah, perception check. 
LIAM: -- you'd still have eyes on Ludinus. 
ROBBIE: Perception check is not great. 
MATT: So your guess is as best as anybody as to how far the actual extension of that gravity is. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: Between the two of you, if you want to say where you want to be. Is it over here? Is it over here? Where do you want to be? 
MARISHA: You want to do right around here? 
ROBBIE: Yeah. That's a similar angle of what I was looking at. 
MARISHA: But on that side? 
ROBBIE: Yeah, but-- When we were pulled in, we were physically pulled in, right? 
MATT: Yeah. Like an extreme source of gravity was right behind you and yanked you off your feet and pulled you into-- 
ROBBIE: I know it sounds crazy, but can we move here, so that the rock is between us and the hole? Maybe we'll be plastered to a rock, but better than plastered outside. 
MARISHA: Yeah, that's fair. Yeah. 
MATT: Let's check out that radius. 
ROBBIE: Oh no! I got bad perceptions. 
MARISHA: Come on. 
MATT: That's 85, 90, 95, a 100. That is outside. 
LAURA: Oh my god. That was so fucking cool. 
TRAVIS: Wow. (claps) 
MARISHA: Hoh doggie! 
MATT: Drop down behind and you can feel the wind in the chamber being pulled towards that direction, but you're not within the gravitational pull. 
ROBBIE: (nervous laugh) Safe for now! 
MARISHA: You saved us! 
ROBBIE: Ah, no. 
MARISHA: You saved the day again! 
ROBBIE: We saved us. 
ROBBIE: You look great by the way. Inspiration. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Yeah! 
MARISHA: Thank you. You know, I really feel like this dry moon dusty air really does something for my complexion. 
MATT: So it's your action, you still have your movement. You used your bonus. 
ROBBIE: That's my bonus. Oh, no. No, no thank you. No thank you, sir. I'd like to stay behind that pillar. I'm good to go. 
MATT: All right. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: At the end of your turn. Let's see here. 
TALIESIN: Grappled. I can't be grappled, but I can be restrained. 
ROBBIE: Silence. 
MARISHA: Oh god. 
ROBBIE: Who put Silence? 
SAM: I did. 
LIAM: Schmaht. 
SAM: Maybe. 
MATT: Ludinus, who with the Exaltant features gained from your mother, includes Silence and Still Spell. 
SAM: What did you say about my mom? 
MATT: So he does not need to speak to cast. 
LIAM and SAM: (groans) 
MATT: On his turn, is going to use two of his legendary actions. 
MARISHA: Fuck. 
ASHLEY: Son of a bitch. 
LAURA: Son of a bitch. 
ASHLEY: Son of a bitch. 
LIAM: So it just means that our spellcasters-- not that you'd want to-- can't get close. 
SAM: For now, I can always just drop it. 
LIAM: He's fine to shit it out. 
SAM: Yeah. But if I see him casting spells, I'll just drop it. 
ROBBIE: Now I'm mad at myself. 
MARISHA: Wish you had moved? 
ROBBIE: Yes. I can fly. 
MATT: He's going to cast-- 
MARISHA: ♪ I can fly, I can fly ♪ 
ROBBIE: I'm not just a magic boy, I can fight. 
MATT: He's going to cast Lightning Bolt at 6th-level. 
SAM: Oh, we're in a line. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Roll a d6 for me, please. 
MARISHA: But why? 
MATT: Just roll a d6. 
ASHLEY: What? Why? 
ROBBIE: Just do it, come on. 
TALIESIN: Trois. 
MARISHA: Trois 
ASHLEY: Where? 
MARISHA: Four? 
MATT: Four. 
ASHLEY: But who? 
LIAM: Can't hear you. 
LAURA: (as Laudna) I'm sorry, I can't. 
MATT: He does lose some spell levels when you hit him there. So I'm just keeping tabs. 
TRAVIS and LAURA: Oh! 
TRAVIS: Hit in the wound. Hit the cyst. 
ASHLEY: Good to know. 
MATT: So he's going to, from behind, now that he's focused back on it turns back at the two of you, Chetney and Orym, and is going to see the staff that you have clutched in. "I mean, you did call it a race, didn't you?" Glances over in your direction without breaking eye contact with you. (lightning crackling) Releases this bolt of extremely bright crackling lightning (lightning crackling) out that way. From this direction here, the range of a Lightning Bolt I believe is a 100 feet. Let me check. 
TRAVIS: So we're just out of range. 
MATT: Correct, so no, you're fine. Ashton is out of range. However, I would like both Orym and Chetney to make dexterity saving throws. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, not a problem. 
LIAM: 24 for me. 
SAM: Okay, okay. 
ROBBIE: Dang. 
TRAVIS: Natural 20. 
ASHLEY: Yes! Okay, okay. 
MARISHA: Let's fucking go! 
TRAVIS: For a 30. 
LIAM: Scatter, pop! 
MATT: Hell yeah. 
TRAVIS: Scatter, pop! 
ASHLEY: Scatter, pop! 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
MATT: 52 points of lightning damage reduced to 26 to each of you. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: Wowzers! 
MATT: That was his legendary actions on that one. 
TRAVIS: Whoa! Wow. 
MATT: All right, and then finishing that turn there for Dorian, Imogen, at the end of your turn, I'm going to need you to make a strength saving throw for me, please. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
SAM: You got this. 
LAURA: Unless I roll a 20. 
TRAVIS: Come on, Imo. 
SAM: Natural 20. 
LAURA: Natural 20! (cheering) 
ASHLEY: Yes! (cheering) 
TRAVIS: Called it out, bitch! 
MATT: Hold on, I'm taking a fucking-- 
TRAVIS: Called it out! 
MATT: -- picture of that. 
TRAVIS: To the moon! 
LIAM: Man, let's go! Let's go, Babe Ruth! 
ROBBIE: Let's go! 
TRAVIS: "Unless it's natural 20!" (laughter) 
MATT: You fucking Babe Ruth called that. (cheering) 
ROBBIE: Yes, yes. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: Eight ball, corner pocket. 
MATT: You resist the intense gravity of the Ravenous Void. Your turn is yours. 
LAURA: Oh god, I fully thought I was going to get sucked in. Now I've got to think about what I'm going to do. 
MARISHA: Out here is our time! 
LIAM: Full birthday girl smashing the bowl at the party. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LAURA: Oh my god, okay. I should move to try to get out of this space as much as I can, so I'm going to head that way. 
MATT: Are you flying still? 
LAURA: I was. 
ASHLEY: See how he asks it? 
MATT: How long does that last for? 
LAURA: But it lasts for an hour, I think. Let me double check, though. (ululating) 
TRAVIS: Fuck, what was I doing? 
LAURA: Hold on, let me look. 
MATT: You weren't talking to Ludinus for an hour. 
LAURA: Not quite an hour. 
MATT: Far less than that. 
LIAM: 20 minutes, 25 minutes maybe. 
MATT: Yeah, 15 maybe at most. 
LAURA: Oh, 10 minutes. It only lasts for 10 minutes. 
MATT: Okay, so that would've faded. 
LAURA: It's gone. 
MATT: The ground is rough terrain because of the gravitational pull. 
LAURA: Then in that case, I'm going to bonus action and float up in the air. 
MATT: Okay, and the gravity still pulls. Everything is rough terrain, even the air around it, because the gravity is pulling. 
SAM: Oh shit. 
MATT: So it's up to you. 
LAURA: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Even underground. (pensive grunt) 
LAURA: Hmm. Okay, wait, maybe I don't do that. Hold on, hold on, hold on! 
ASHLEY: Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. 
LAURA: Okay, so I can get-- 
MATT: Fearne, you're on deck. 
LAURA: -- 15 feet, right? So I'm going to move 15 feet that way. 
MATT: Okay. Five, 10, 15. 
LAURA: 10, 15, but that's farther than 30 feet away from me. I'm going to Misty Step here. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: So that if it pulls me towards it, it's at least pulling me against this rock and it doesn't suck me in, right? 
MATT: We'll find out. 
LAURA: Potentially. 
ROBBIE: (wheezes) 
MARISHA: We were talking about the same physics, yeah. 
ROBBIE: The exact same idea. Yeah, that's why we're behind the rock. 
LAURA: Who knows? Okay, well, I just used a spell, fuck. Okay, so that's 2nd-level. 
ASHLEY: Spell fuck? 
LAURA: I used a spell fuck. Hold on. Like he's going to-- This is definitely going to work on him. I am going-- 
TRAVIS: Yeah, you've got to neg your own rolls. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: That's the key. 
LAURA: That's what it takes? 
TRAVIS: Just neg your own. 
LIAM: Neg them out, yeah. 
MATT: (laughs) 
LAURA: I'm going to-- 
LIAM: The oldest mortal mage-- 
SAM: I'm going to-- 
LAURA: -- use a sorcery point to double my distance of Mind Sliver. 
LIAM: Zip! 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: Even though I know he's very intelligent, maybe he'll roll low, and that is an intelligence saving throw. 
MATT: You got it. Oh wow. 26. 
LAURA: He succeeds. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: I get the feeling that was a low row. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Low. Roll. 
LAURA: Was it a low roll? 
MATT: It was a 12. 
LAURA: Okay, good to know. 
MARISHA: A 12. 
LAURA: A 12 got him a 26. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: 13. 
MARISHA: It was 13? 
ASHLEY: No, 14. 
MARISHA: Plus 14. 
LAURA: Okay, okay. 
TALIESIN: That's rough. 
MARISHA: All right, great, great. 
ASHLEY: Okay, cool. 
MARISHA: That answers-- 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. 
MARISHA: -- some questions. 
LAURA: That's all I can do. 
MATT: That finishes your turn? Okay. Fearne, at the beginning of your turn, please make a strength saving throw. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Let's go, Fearnie. 
ASHLEY: It's no problem. It's no problem. 
LAURA: I broke my pen! 
MATT: No! 
LAURA: My magic pen! 
ASHLEY: Wait, I have advantage against spells and other magical effects. 
TRAVIS: A price must be paid. 
LIAM: But you did get a natural 20. 
MATT: Correct, so you have advantage. 
ASHLEY: So I get advantage? Okay. 
ROBBIE: Yeah! 
MARISHA: Gravity Fissure's a bitch. 
LIAM: Gravity broke your pen. 
MARISHA: Gravity broke my pen! 
ASHLEY: No. 
ROBBIE: Come on! 
ASHLEY: 12. 
MARISHA and ROBBIE: (laugh) 
MATT: Unfortunately, that's a failure. 
LAURA: Wait, wait. 
ASHLEY: Sorry, sorry. 
LAURA: You have a negative two? I thought it was a plus. Oh no! 
ASHLEY: Nah, B, that's a minus two. 
LAURA: You're even weaker than me. 
TRAVIS: Nah, B? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. (laughter) Okay, so-- 
MARISHA: On your strength? 
ASHLEY: Yes, minus two. 
LAURA: This bitch is weak as you. 
MARISHA: Yeah, she is! 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MARISHA: I didn't know that. 
TALIESIN: I thought you were strong? 
ASHLEY: It's a dump stat. 
MATT: Take 21 points of force damage. 
ASHLEY: 21? 
MATT: Correct. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: And you are restrained. 
LAURA: What? 
ASHLEY: (screams) 
LIAM: Goodness. 
LAURA: You just did 22. Okay. 
ASHLEY: Wait guys, I can't see, I can't see! Is anyone in here? This hurts, fuck! 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: You still have your action. 
SAM: You're pressed up to Ashton. 
ASHLEY: I still have-- Oh hi. 
TALIESIN: Got an idea? Any idea? 
ASHLEY: Yes, but I can't see. I can't see, right? 
LAURA: You can see. 
MATT and TALIESIN: You can see. 
ASHLEY: Oh, I can see, never mind. 
SAM: My fur was in my eyes. 
MATT: It's shaded by the intensity of the gravitational pull there, but it's more like the singularity where you're pulled to is this sphere of intense, rending gravity. 
LIAM: I'm going to fart on you. 
ASHLEY: Oh god, okay. 
LIAM: I'm going to do it. I'm going to let it rip. Here it comes. 
ASHLEY: All right, you know what I'm going to do? I am going to try to aim-- Am I within 60 feet? Did we already do this? 
MATT: 60 feet of-- 
ASHLEY: Of Ludinus. 
MATT: You are about 120 feet from him. 
ASHLEY: Yes, I am, I know, I figured. I was just going to check. 
TALIESIN: You have a way of getting out of this? Dimension Door? 
LAURA: Do you have Dimension Door? 
ASHLEY: Well, would Mister still be out? Because he was in the last fight. 
MATT: Mister was in the last fight. 
LIAM: Mister is currently going around and around. 
ASHLEY: I'm trying to grab him each time he goes by. 
MATT: Make a strength saving throw for Mister. 
ASHLEY: Oh okay. 
ROBBIE: (gasp) Him strong! 
LAURA: Wait, what's his health? How much is his health? 
ASHLEY: Oh yeah, you're right, you're right, you're right. 
LAURA: Because if he goes in-- 
ASHLEY: Let me pull him up. I'm so sorry. 
MARISHA: Yeah, come on, he's got grippy toes. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, he got grip toes. He go, hoo! 
MARISHA: He got this. 
MATT: (sad monkey hooting) 
TALIESIN: He's not quite-- 
MATT: (monkey hoots fading) 
LAURA: Oh, Mister! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: No, Mister! 
TRAVIS: No! (laughter) 
MATT: We're not there yet, we're not there yet. 
ASHLEY: Oh yeah, he's down a little bit, not too much. 
TRAVIS: But soon, Matt. Soon. 
ASHLEY: ♪ Mister, come back ♪ 
MATT: Okay, so roll a strength saving throw for Mister. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
TRAVIS: ♪ You can blame it all on me ♪ 
ASHLEY: Oh okay, well, he's got-- Come on, Mister. Oh no. 
ROBBIE: Oh no. 
ASHLEY: That's a two. 
ROBBIE: Aw. 
ASHLEY: Baby boy. 
ROBBIE: So fast. 
MATT: Mister takes-- 
ROBBIE: (poof) 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: That's a lot of math. 
MATT: 28 points of force damage. 
ASHLEY: Oh no. He's still up. 
LAURA: Is he? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, he is. 
MATT: (screeches) (laughter) 
LAURA: He's next to you now? 
ASHLEY: He's next to me. I mean, is he? 
MATT: Yeah, he's pulled right next to you. 
TALIESIN: All three of us. 
ASHLEY: All right, so as a bonus action, can I Dimension Door out with him? 
MATT: Do you have a Dimension Door spell, or are you using your ability? 
ASHLEY: It is called-- 
TALIESIN: No, I can't go. 
ROBBIE: You can't go because you're big. 
ASHLEY: It's his-- 
TALIESIN: Because I'm fucking big. Shit. 
ASHLEY: Let me pull it up here. 
LAURA: Is it 30 feet or is it 500 feet? 
ASHLEY: I think it's only 15. 
TALIESIN: That's okay. 
LAURA: Oh. 
ASHLEY: Let's see here. 
LIAM: What would Jennifer Lopez do? 
ASHLEY: Jennifer Lopez. 
SAM: Hello, my name is Jennifer Lopez. 
TRAVIS: Oh my god. 
ASHLEY: The spirit and each willing creature of your choice, so technically Ashton could go too. 
TALIESIN: I'm too big. 
LIAM and ROBBIE: Too big. 
ASHLEY: Never mind. 
LAURA: Wait, no. 
ASHLEY: The spirit and each willing creature of your choice-- 
LAURA: It doesn't say-- 
ASHLEY: -- within five feet of it-- 
TALIESIN: Oh. 
SAM: This isn't Dimension Door. 
TALIESIN: Oh, then yeah. 
ASHLEY: -- teleport up to 15 feet to an unoccupied space that you can see. 
LAURA: But 15 feet is as big as the radius. 
MATT: So you're teleporting yourself or another creature? 
ASHLEY: I can do both. The spirit and each willing creature of your choice. 
MATT: Oh yeah, so you could teleport yourself to the edge. Ashton, you would be able to teleport him just out of the radius. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to teleport Ashton out with Mister. 
LIAM: Then hold onto his thighs. 
SAM: And yourself? 
MATT: So you appear there. 
LAURA: I mean, could you-- 
ASHLEY: I can't. 
LAURA: But maybe Ashton can pull you out easier-- 
LIAM: Pull you out. 
ROBBIE: He's not restrained now, right? Now that he's out of the-- 
MATT: You are no longer restrained because you pulled away from the center, which holds you there. 
TALIESIN: Oh, okay. 
ROBBIE: Oh okay. That's good. 
MATT: You also get pushed out there. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Good, good. 
LAURA: So he's not restrained. 
TALIESIN: Which means you can run. 
TRAVIS: Good! 
ROBBIE: 100 feet? 
MARISHA: Yeah, can you run now? 
LAURA: No. 
TALIESIN: Well, you can get far enough away. 
LAURA: It's all difficult terrain. 
LAURA: You can get 15 feet away. 
TALIESIN: I don't think it can pull you all the way in. 
ROBBIE: That's some dookie. 
LAURA: That's why I got fucked. 
ASHLEY: Can I get out of it, get within 60 feet of him? Just putting that out there. 
MATT: Well, you can move 15 feet from where you are now and move out of it. 
ASHLEY: Okay, that won't be 60. Okay. 
MATT: Which would put you five, 10, 15. That's your movement right there. 
LAURA: Hold onto the rock. 
MATT: He is over here. 
ASHLEY: Okay, great. 
SAM: Hey, nobody's in the thing. 
ASHLEY: All right, so now I have my action. 
MATT: Correct. 
ASHLEY: Because I did my movement, my bonus with Mister. 
MATT: Correct. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so-- 
LAURA: It's up to you. You must save us. 
LIAM: Sure. 
LAURA: You're the only one. 
ASHLEY: This is a dumb thing-- 
LAURA: And Chet. 
ASHLEY: -- but I'm going to try it. 
LIAM: With all my spells. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to try it. 
LAURA: You and Chet must save us. 
LIAM: Versus the archmage. 
ASHLEY: But this is within 60 feet as well. Never mind. 
TRAVIS: You can put your faith in us. 
ASHLEY: Fuck. Shit. 
MATT: What do you have in long range? 
ASHLEY: Okay I'm going to do this. 
LAURA: You have your (crackling). 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I'm going to do my Scorching Ray. There were two things I wanted to do. 
MATT: Okay, so Scorching Ray. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to do Scorching Ray, and I'm going to try to aim for-- 
ROBBIE: We fuck him up-- 
ASHLEY: -- back of the neck. 
MATT: For his-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: The quintessence root. 
ASHLEY: Yes, so-- 
MATT: Yes, you may. Now, what level are you casting it? Because remember, every level above two, you get an additional beam. 
ASHLEY: Yes, so I will do it at-- 
LAURA: Hit it hard-- 
ASHLEY: I'll do it at 5th-level. 
MATT: 5th-level, okay. 
TALIESIN: Ooh. 
LIAM: In the back of the neck. 
MATT: Three, four, five-- 
ASHLEY: Back of the neck. 
MATT: -- that's six different attacks you get with it. 
LAURA: Great. 
TALIESIN: And you get a d4. 
MARISHA: Come on, come on. 
TALIESIN: Add a d4. 
ASHLEY: Why do I get a d4? 
LAURA: Because you're right next to Ashton. 
TALIESIN: Because you're standing next to me. 
ASHLEY: Because I'm standing next to you. Okay, great. 
TALIESIN: I'm a probability engine right now. 
MATT: Oh yeah, you rolled that for your rage? 
TALIESIN: Yes, I did. 
LAURA: So we'll see how many hit. 
ASHLEY: Okay, hit number one is-- 
TALIESIN: Add the d4. 
LAURA: Then roll the d4. 
ASHLEY: Great. 14, 25. 
TALIESIN: ♪ Add the d4 ♪ 
MATT: 25 just misses. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
ASHLEY: Wait, no, wait wait wait wait. Hold on, hold on. 
MARISHA: Okay, that's the magic number. 
ASHLEY: Hold on, 13-- 
SAM: What if I told you it was 26? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, that is 25. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Okay, so that misses. Do I do the four again? 
MATT: It's a very, very small spot-- 
LAURA: Yeah, every single attack. 
MATT: -- on the back of his neck. 
ROBBIE: Says Braius. 
MATT: So it's a combination of-- 
LAURA: It's a 26. That's lower. Wait. 
ASHLEY: It's lower. 
SAM: You've got to roll the d4. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
LAURA: No, it's lower. 
SAM: Okay. 
LIAM: A very little "Hello Kitty" tattoo. 
MATT: Yeah. (laughs) 
MARISHA: I was really drunk in college. 
LAURA: Okay. That hits, that hits. 
ASHLEY: That's 28. 
LIAM: There I was in the Age of Arcana. 
MATT: 28 hits. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so that's out of three, right? 
MATT: You have three more rolls to make. 
ASHLEY: Great. 
LAURA: That hits. 
ASHLEY: That hits. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, okay. 
LIAM: That's a yeah. 
ASHLEY: No. 
LAURA: That doesn't hit. 
ASHLEY: Okay. I don't get much of anything anymore. 
LIAM: Tell the people the numbers. 
MATT: And the last one? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LAURA: It hits! 
ASHLEY: 18 plus two plus 11. 
LAURA: Three attacks! 
MATT: That's three hits. 
SAM: 31. 31. 
MARISHA: Let's go, bitch. Let's go. 
MATT: Roll 3d6. 
ASHLEY: I rolled six? 
LIAM: Pow, pow, pow. 
LAURA: Yeah, that was six. You got three attacks on him. 
ASHLEY: Okay so-- All right so-- 
LIAM: Roll the teeth. 
ASHLEY: One hit will be-- (laughs) 
LIAM: Here come the baby teeth. 
ASHLEY: So, seven-- 
LAURA: Plus? 
LIAM: Pew, pew. 
ASHLEY: Nice. Plus nine, so 16. Plus five. 
LAURA: Those are the three attacks? 
ASHLEY: Those are the three attacks. 
MATT: Okay, got you. Now roll an additional 8d6 necrotic damage. 
LAURA: Would it be 8d6-- 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: -- for each hit? 
MARISHA: For each hit? 
MATT: If he gets hit during that turn, he takes the damage. 
LAURA: Okay. Okay. 
ASHLEY: I love you guys, though. 
TRAVIS: Get kicked in the dick! 
ASHLEY: You both were like: But for each? 
MARISHA: I was like: Wait a second! 
ASHLEY: That's four, okay. 
LAURA: Ow. 
ASHLEY: SO I'll just roll all these. 
LAURA: I just pinched my neck with the dumbass, excited-- 
SAM: Just pointing? 
TRAVIS: Sympathy pain with Ludinus? 
LAURA: Yeah, well, I twisted myself because I was excited about it. 
LIAM: Hope your gag was worth it. 
LAURA: It was. 
ASHLEY: Oh, that's not great. Whatever. Okay, so we got-- 
LIAM: Get out of there. Get out of there! 
MARISHA: It's good to know it's just one-- 
TALIESIN: I think I'll-- Yeah. 
ASHLEY: (quietly counting) 
SAM: What can I do from way over here? 
MATT: So multiple attacks give you multiple opportunities to hit him. 
TALIESIN: I now have-- 
ASHLEY: 20 points of damage. 
TALIESIN: -- advantage on the roll, where I didn't before. 
MATT: That's an additional 20 points. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: Makes a save on each of those. It works against the first. Actually, I'm going to roll these out in front, because it's fun. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: So that was three hits against him, right? So that's three different rolls against-- We'll say the additional damage is on the biggest one. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: So, first one. Yeah, no issue. 
LIAM: Ugh! 19. 
MATT: That's fine there. Last one. 
LIAM: (groans) 
MATT: No. 
ASHLEY: Saved them all? 
LIAM: Great rolls. 
LAURA: He rolls high. Are you rolling your Rudinus-- 
ASHLEY: Rudinus? 
LAURA: Ruidus dice? 
MATT: I'm rolling my Ruidus dice-- 
LIAM: So Rude-inus. 
MATT: -- and my Beacon die. 
MARISHA: That is cool. 
LAURA: Aw, and they're really treating you well. 
MATT: They are. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Glad you made those. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
LIAM: (laughs) 
MATT: He takes the hit and shrugs it off a little bit, just keeps focusing. That finishes the round. Up at the top, Orym, you are up. 
ASHLEY: Okay. That's my turn. 
MATT: At the beginning of your turn, make a strength saving throw for me. 
LIAM: Sure. Strength save? 
MATT: Correct. 
LIAM: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Saving throw. 
LIAM: That is a 15. 
MATT: 15 does not succeed. 
LIAM: Can I use Misty Step in this moment to escape the pull? 
MATT: This happens at the start of your turn. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: Before anything happens. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: So as-- Orym is behind you, and almost tries to reach for you, Chetney-- 
ROBBIE: That's so annoying. 
MARISHA: It's so annoying. 
MATT: -- he gets pulled off of his feet. 
LAURA: I know. 
LAURA: It feels like you should be able to use a reaction to get-- 
LIAM: Wow! 
TALIESIN: All the way in? 
LIAM: To the center? 
MATT: To the center. 
TRAVIS: Holy crap. 
LAURA: All the way? 
TALIESIN: Whoa. 
LAURA: All the way?! 
LIAM: I'm taking his motherfucking staff with me. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, 100 feet. 
TRAVIS: Oh that's true, that's true, that's true. 
ROBBIE: That's a black hole. That's a singularity in the middle of the battle map. 
SAM: We've gotten two people out of there. 
MATT: You are restrained, Orym. And you take...
LAURA: Yeah, that is huge. 
TRAVIS: Wow. 
LAURA: Because he would've stayed restrained. 
MARISHA: Fucking powerful spell. 
TRAVIS: Nobody gets an opportunity attack? 
MATT: ... 28 points of force damage.
LAURA: Now he's raging, so he has advantage. 
LIAM and ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: That's great. 
TRAVIS: (bops) 
TALIESIN: Shit. 
MARISHA: Yeah, dude. 
TALIESIN: Shit, shit, shit. 
TRAVIS: Halfling flying! 
LAURA: I lied, you're not the one that's going to save-- 
MATT: Roll a d6 for me, please, to see how many spell slots Ludinus will lose. 
LAURA: Roll a six! Roll a six! Roll high. 
ASHLEY: Okay, I'll roll this one. 
MATT: Or spell levels, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Two. 
MATT: Two, so three. 
SAM: Where's my-- Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Damn it. I knew I shouldn't have rolled that one, too. 
SAM: I'm not going to use it for any good reason. 
ASHLEY: You know when you feel it? 
LAURA: You felt it? Yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: And you're like: I'm going to commit. 
ASHLEY: But I'm going to commit, because that's not a thing. 
LAURA: Roll another one and see what you would've gotten. 
LIAM: So now it's my turn after I ate shit. 
MATT: Now it's your turn. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: Technically, but then everyone was like: Don't use it there. 
TRAVIS: Hey, Imogen. 
LIAM: So I'm going to-- The staff, I just let drop into the center of this black hole. 
MATT: Yeah, you're there in the middle and you let the staff go (electric clutch) and it's held there in the middle, spinning around in the space where you're-- 
LIAM: Oh jeez! 
MATT: -- spinning around it in the area. 
LIAM: Also, as he with his high perception, flew backwards, I looked at the terrain as I flew by. I'm now going to bonus action Misty Step 30 feet to this side of this rock. 
MATT: Which means you are no longer restrained. 
LIAM: Okay, so I have that at my back, at least. But this pull is still going no matter what, so if I run out into the middle, I'll just get pulled again. 
MATT: At the beginning of your next turn. 
ASHLEY: (pours drink loudly) 
LIAM: I have no ranged attacks. 
ASHLEY: Sorry. 
MATT: That's a good head turn, Ashley. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) Yeah. That pour was so-- 
LIAM: I will use-- So that was bonus action, and it's tricksy movement still, right, here? 
MATT: Yep, everything within 100 feet of that sphere is rough terrain. 
LIAM: Can I use Grasping Vine as an action, since it's normally a bonus action, but use my action to use it? 
MATT: I'll allow it. 
LIAM: Yeah? 
MATT: If you haven't used it yet. I won't let you use it twice in the same round, but if you want to spend your action-- 
LIAM: Right, I haven't used it yet. 
MATT: -- to do it, I'll allow it. 
LIAM: So I will send out a vine to this and drag myself forward, and then I will end my turn by falling down with stone-- Here, I guess. 
MATT: Right there? 
LIAM: So that I can press against the rock and not get sucked backward. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: I'll say that's the end of my turn. 
MATT: You got it. 
MARISHA: We don't have any confirmation, right? 
ROBBIE: Untested. 
MATT: All right, that finishes your go. 
MARISHA: Because we won't know-- 
MATT: Chetney, you're up. 
MARISHA: -- until I guess we-- 
MATT: At the beginning of your turn, please make a strength saving throw for me, please. 
SAM: He's got this. 
TRAVIS: Advantage. 
MATT: You do have advantage because you're in your wolf form. 
TRAVIS: Because wolfy-wolf. 
LIAM: God, I was about to shove that shit in Chet's bag. I didn't shut the bag. 
ROBBIE: Pretty good. 
TRAVIS: 23. 
MATT: 23 succeeds. 
TRAVIS: Yes! 
ROBBIE and LIAM: Yeah! 
MATT: You resist the gravitational pull-- 
MARISHA: Come on! 
MATT: -- of the Ravenous Void. 
TRAVIS: Amazing. I'm going to start walking forward as a wolf, as a wolf, and I'm going to use a curse like a wolf, like a wolf. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: When I get within 30 feet of him-- 
MATT: So that's five, 10, 15 feet of movement to get within 30 feet of him. 
TRAVIS: Beautiful. I'm going to use Blood Curse of the Muddled Mind. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: I'm going to amplify it to-- 
LIAM: Let's go. Let's go. 
SAM: I'm going to drop Silence. 
TRAVIS: Take eight points of damage. 
MATT: You're dropping Silence? Okay. 
TRAVIS: "Curse a creature that is concentrating on a spell or feature that requires concentration. The cursed target has disadvantage on the next constitution saving throw it makes to maintain concentration before the end of the turn" Now he has disadvantage on all constitution saving throws until the end of my next turn. All of them. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: Sweet. 
MATT: Okay. (laughs) 
LIAM: Ring his bell. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Let's see if that helps. 
MATT: So he has advantage on concentration checks, so this means it's a straight check. 
TRAVIS: Straight roll. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: Until your next turn. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: Ooh, that's-- 
LAURA: Goddamn it. 
LIAM: Better than it was. 
MATT: That's pretty slick. 
MARISHA: Better than it was. 
TRAVIS: I'll keep using the rest of my 45 to come, see how close I can get to him. 
ASHLEY: I love that photo of her. 
MATT: Your movement is 40? 
TRAVIS: 40, 40. 
LAURA: Can you see my boobs in that? Okay, it cut it off. 
MATT: So it's 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40 gets you right into melee with him. 
ASHLEY: I love that picture. 
TRAVIS: Okay. I'm going to take two swings with Turmoil. 
MATT: Let's go. 
TRAVIS: Right in his-- 
ASHLEY: You look so good. 
TRAVIS: How do melee targeted attacks work? 
MATT: You tell me you want to focus on it, and then I adjust the AC accordingly. 
TRAVIS: Okay, I want to try and make the first one against the knob on the back of the neck. 
MATT: Okay, go ahead and roll. 
TRAVIS: Because they're at advantage, but if it's not disadvantage let's see where it goes. That was dog shit. 
MARISHA: Ugh! 
TRAVIS: That was only an 18 to hit. I'm going to do it for the second one, too. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Because fuck it, why not? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's much better. 25 to hit. 
LIAM: Nice. 
MATT: 25 misses. 
MARISHA: It's 26. 
TALIESIN: 26. 
ROBBIE: No way! 
TRAVIS: It's 26, that's right. 
MATT: You go to strike the first time and-- 
MARISHA: Fuck, it was so close. 
MATT: -- you feel like the gravity pull. 
LAURA: That's so high. 
MARISHA: Fuck! 
MATT: Even though you're not quite in the radius of the spell, it's almost like it pulls your arm back slightly and you're like: The gravity, it shouldn't have affected me. You realize it's because the psychic force around him is repelling you, and you go to strike a second time, and you feel something invisible grab your hand in the middle of the air, and Ludinus glances over his shoulder and goes, "Oh, there you are." 
TRAVIS: (questioning bark) 
LAURA: Ooh, is he hitting on you? 
MARISHA: He's a little look back. 
TRAVIS: I mean, who isn't hitting on me? 
LAURA: I mean! 
TRAVIS: That is the end of my turn. 
MATT: All right, finishes Chetney's go. It is now Ludinus's turn. He gets his legendary actions back. 
LAURA: Fuck you. I'm sorry. (laughs) 
MATT: You know what? Actually, at the end of your turn, Chetney, he's going to use his last legendary action to-- 
ROBBIE: Actually. 
TRAVIS: To compliment me on my fur color? 
ROBBIE: Fuck you up. 
LAURA: To try to get in Chetney's pants. 
LIAM: Well, actually. 
MATT: So I need you to make-- Is it an intelligence saving throw? 
SAM: Mind Sliver? 
LAURA: For what? 
MATT: Make an intelligence saving throw. 
SAM: Mind Sliver. 
LAURA: What? Mind Sliver? 
SAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yes, intelligence. 
TRAVIS: This wouldn't be a charmed or frightened, right? 
LIAM: He's smart, though. 
MATT: It is not. 
TRAVIS: You said intelligence saving throw? 
MATT: Correct. 
TRAVIS: Wait, I rolled that with advantage. I don't think I was supposed to. 
ASHLEY: Wait. 
TRAVIS: It was a natural 20. 
TRAVIS: Did you just burp? 
LIAM: Yes I did. Stinky, huh? 
TRAVIS: I don't think I have it. No. 
LIAM: Hey, I could've farted on your head. 
ROBBIE: Just do it again. 
LIAM: But I didn't. 
ROBBIE: Just do it again. 
MARISHA: Just do it again. Repeat. 
TRAVIS: Oh, so close! 
MARISHA: Oh, that almost did! (laughter) 
MARISHA: Oh my god, it almost did! 
TRAVIS: 11. 
MATT: 11, okay. So you take 15 points of psychic damage, and the next saving throw you make before the end of Ludinus's next turn, reduce it by a d4. 
TRAVIS: Reduce by d4. 
MATT: Yeah, so keep that in mind. Yeah. 
TRAVIS: On the next saving throw. 
MATT: Now, at the end of your turn, he regains his legendary actions. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Ludinus-- 
LAURA: Raise your hand. 
MATT: -- is going to spend his action ignoring you and focusing on the barrier. 
TRAVIS: That's just, that's fucking insulting. 
LAURA: That's rude. 
MATT: As he does, you watch as the energy flicker up his body and that heavy buzzing static sound gets extremely strong and concentrated. Your vision up close seems to double, triple over, almost like you're seeing multiple channels on a TV overlapping for a second. 
LAURA: Fuck, I wasted-- 
MATT: With that, you see this white flash, a smaller version of that one time that Imogen, in your first fight with-- 
ASHLEY: Lost her shit. 
MATT: -- Otohan, ended up annihilating a city block and teleporting everyone. As soon as it (flash) the white flash outward, you come back to and you watch as the first boundary's tethers-- (dissipate) You watch, it doesn't shatter, but it's almost like it becomes permeable. The glyphs become more translucent, and he-- 
LAURA: I should've made you do it. 
MATT: -- steps through it. 
LIAM: (uneasy moan) 
ASHLEY: Can you get over there? 
MATT: You can take an attack of opportunity if you'd like. 
LAURA: No, I can't. 
TRAVIS: Oh sure, yeah. 
MARISHA: Do it. 
LIAM: (groans) 
ROBBIE: Oh, those move! 
LAURA: I don't have fucking Dimension Door. 
ROBBIE: Oh, bummer. 
LAURA: You have Dimension Door. 
LIAM: There's four more of them. 
ASHLEY: No, I just have Mister. 
TRAVIS: Oh, that'll hit. 
ASHLEY: I can go 15 feet. 
TRAVIS: 20, that's exactly a 26. Natural 17. 
MATT: Well, this isn't aiming at his because this is just a reaction strike. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, a regular strike. 
MATT: So-- 
MARISHA: Do you have sentinel? 
MATT: Yeah, he's going to Shield. 
ASHLEY: Damn it, you can't get up there. 
TRAVIS: No. 
MATT: What was it, 26? No, it would hit him, regardless. So yeah, so roll damage. 
TRAVIS: Okay, great, 2d6, plus six, I think. I just scrolled away from it like a tool. 
LAURA: Seem like it's an opportunity. 
SAM: The barrier is no longer there? 
MATT: The barrier is still present, but the area where he was touching it seems to become permeable. The glyphs in that area-- 
LIAM: Like Jell-O. where he was standing become translucent and he steps through it. So the boundary's broken. 
SAM: But can we step through it? 
LAURA: For a second, maybe for an action-- 
TRAVIS: 22 points of damage, five of which is lightning. 
LAURA: -- at the end of his turn. But we're not going to make it up there. 
TRAVIS: If the creature's made of blood? 
MATT: It is. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 22. 
MATT: 22 point of damage. All right, so he needs to, DC of 11. Yeah, he succeeds. 
LAURA: Ugh. 
TRAVIS: Disadvantage. 
MATT: I only rolled one die. 
TRAVIS: Oh, that's right, it's a straight roll. 
ASHLEY: Matt. 
MATT: Yes. 
ASHLEY: I forgot to roll an extra d8 for enhanced bond. 
TRAVIS: Just have to give it to somebody. 
MATT: Oh, for the fire. 
ASHLEY: For the fire. So it's an extra four points of damage. Sorry. 
MATT: No, that's okay. 
LAURA: That was it. 
MATT: All righty, that finish your go, Chet? 
TRAVIS: Yes it does. 
MATT: Or no, sorry, that was him moving forward. That finishes his turn. As a bonus action, he steps through it and then turns back again and goes, "Go play with your friends," and flicks his hand. Make a strength saving throw for me. 
MARISHA: No 
TRAVIS: Oh no. 
MATT: He's going to telekinetic shove you 
SAM: Oh no, you have disadvantage on this. 
TRAVIS: Now I have disadvantage? 
SAM: No, you have negative d4. 
MARISHA and MATT: Minus d4. 
TRAVIS: Do I roll the d4 as well? 
MATT: You do, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 10, strength, 17. 
MATT: 17. You get shoved 10 feet back away from him. 
SAM: That's not so bad. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
SAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Thought I was going back to-- 
MARISHA: I did, too. 
TRAVIS: -- the bowling alley. 
MARISHA: Oh my god. Did you drop Silence? 
MATT: You do feel-- 
SAM: I did. 
MARISHA: You did. 
MATT: You're not quite sure yet, and we'll measure it when it comes around to it, but you are on the cusp of the tug of the distant Ravenous Void. 
TRAVIS: I always like being on the cusp of the tug. (laughter) 
LAURA: Just the cusp. 
MATT: I walked into that. I'm cusping! 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
MATT: All right. 
TRAVIS: Tragedy. Don't try so hard. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Braius-- 
SAM: Yep. 
MATT: You're up. 
LIAM: Won't you buy me dinner first? 
TRAVIS: Do less! 
ROBBIE: Wait, wait, wait, wait. 
MATT: Make a strength saving throw for me, please. 
SAM: Strength saving throw! 
MARISHA: (laughs) "Do less." 
SAM: What was that? What does that say? 14, that's good. 14 plus nine is 23. 
MATT: 23, you resist the pull of the spell and you-- 
LAURA: It's amazing. 
SAM: I'm such a fucking badass. 
MATT: -- can keep going. 
LAURA: You are such a badass. 
TRAVIS: God. 
SAM: It's going to suck when I kill you. 
TRAVIS: Thank god you converted to a good deity. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
SAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: A good god. 
SAM: I can still only move half speed. So it's either cast a spell or move. 
LAURA: There's nothing to be done. 
SAM: If I used everything to get 60 feet, I'd still be within the pull, right? 
MATT: It looks like it's quite a large radius of the spell pull. Like rocks and things from up here are like, (rocks whooshing). 
SAM: Goddamn it. Goddamn it. 
LAURA: I can't move 20 again. 
SAM: We need to hit this guy. 
TALIESIN: Our speed is halved? 
MATT: Your speed is halved within a hundred feet, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
SAM: Do I get close or do I hurt him? I will hurt him. I'll move 15 feet because that's what I can move. 
TALIESIN: If you are within 10 feet of me, you get a d4 to your attack, by the way. 
MATT: Which you are within 10 feet. 
LAURA: Yeah. Great. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
SAM: Then I will cast-- 
LAURA: Silence? 
ASHLEY: Shh. 
SAM: Moonbeam. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: At 3rd-level. 
LAURA: Get it, get it up there. Fuck this guy. 
SAM: 4th-level. 
ASHLEY: Shove it in. 
MATT: Moonbeam at 4th-level. 
ASHLEY: Moonbeam. 
MATT: It'll definitely get him. 
LIAM: Is it a red Moonbeam? 
LAURA: Yes. 
SAM: Yes! Oh, weirdly on the moon, it's just called Beam. (laughter) (laughter) 
MATT: That is pretty good. That's pretty dumb, I love it. 
SAM: Oh, he has to save against it, it's not a attack roll. 
TALIESIN: He does. 
SAM: It's a constitution, 18. 
MATT: Okay, which he has disadvantage on but against spells he has advantage. So it's a straight roll. That would've been, well here I'll roll it in front then. That would be 21. 
SAM: Oh. 
LAURA: Aw. 
TALIESIN: Good shot. 
MATT: He succeeds but he still takes damage. 
SAM: Does he? Let's see here. What's it say? 
TALIESIN: Half damage? 
MATT: Half as much. So it's 2d10 but you cast it at 4th-level. 
MATT and SAM: So it's 4d10 
MATT: radiant damage. 
SAM: Yeah. Where is my d10s? I never use these, I'll use the percentile dice. 
TRAVIS: ♪ Where is my d10? ♪ 
SAM: Five and eight is 13. 
LIAM: But he's got an arcane-- candy shell right now. 
SAM: Plus seven and two is 22. So half that. 
MATT: 11 points of radiant damage. He does get to save against it. So DC 10. 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Yeah, natural 19. 
LIAM: (disappointed huff) 
ROBBIE: Jesus, Matt. 
SAM: (growls) 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LIAM: Hot DM tonight. Hot DM. 
TRAVIS: That's just the single roll, right? 
SAM: Bonus action, I will Inspire-- 
TRAVIS: He's got the stank. 
SAM: Boy, who needs it? Who's weaker? You're weak. 
ASHLEY: I mean, we got to get her. 
TALIESIN: Also, Laudna's about to go. 
SAM: I don't know where she is. 
LAURA: I'm on the other side of this rock. I think I'm too far from you. 
SAM: I will Inspire you, Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
SAM: I'll show you a little bit of chest. 
ASHLEY: Whoa. 
ROBBIE: Woo! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Look at those curls coming out the top of your shirt. 
SAM: Yeah, they've got curls on top of the hair. 
LAURA: It's curly hair. 
MATT: Perfect. 
ASHLEY: Perfectly curled. 
MATT: All right, that finish your turn, Braius? 
SAM: Yep, yep. 
MATT: All right. Laudna, you're up, with Ashton on deck. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
ASHLEY: What do I do for Inspiration? 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: No, you're-- 
LAURA: Ha, ha! They're out of it. 
MATT: We're going to measure now, yep. 
SAM: Extra d6 whenever you want to roll it. 
MATT: Again, just to recall. 
LAURA: They were out of it, they were out of it. You measured already. 
MATT: Yep, they are. So you're good. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Stop, stop! Don't look, don't look. 
ROBBIE: Okay. (laughter) 
LAURA: Don't second guess-- 
TRAVIS: Fight for every inch. 
LAURA: -- yourself, Matthew. 
TRAVIS: Every inch! 
LIAM: Put the ruler away. 
MATT: Just double checking. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
MARISHA: Okay. Five, 10, 15. 20, 25, 30, 35 40. 
LIAM: Let's go, dead lady. Let's go. 
MARISHA: Here's what I'm going to do. I am going to skirt this line. 
SAM and LIAM: Skrrt! 
MARISHA: Wherever I see-- 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MARISHA: -- little pebbles and stuff getting sucked away. I'm going to be like, oh god. So I'm going to move as much as I can hugging this edge and try and get like-- 
LAURA: Edging it. 
MARISHA: I'm going to edge it. I'm going to cusp it-- 
LAURA: Yeah, baby. 
TALIESIN: Keep edging. 
MARISHA: One, two, three. 
LAURA and ROBBIE: (laugh) 
MARISHA: Can I get up here? 
MATT: You can. It'll take all your movement to get up there. 
MARISHA: That's okay. I'm going to get up here. 
LIAM: Right in that crack there? 
LAURA and ROBBIE: (laugh) 
MARISHA: Then I'm going to get out Pâté. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Secret weapon, Pâté. 
MARISHA: Yes. (laughter) 
MARISHA: You're my nuke, baby! All right, he's got a fly speed-- 
MATT: (Pâté) "Hey Miss, what's going on? What're we doing?" 
MARISHA: All right, here's what I need you to do. 
MATT: "Yeah, tell me." 
MARISHA: Listen very carefully. 
MATT: "Yeah, listening." 
MARISHA: He's got a fleshy hole in the back of his neck, like a knob. 
MATT: "Gross." 
MARISHA: So gross. 
MATT: "I love it." 
MARISHA: I need you to go and latch onto the back of his neck. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) Oh! 
MATT: "Cool." 
MARISHA: Just-- (clutch) 
MATT: "Oh, I got you." 
MARISHA: -- dig into it with your bony little fingers and-- 
MATT: "Latch on to his fleshy hole." 
MARISHA: Just like, (suctioning clutch). 
MATT: "Got it." 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: "(excited laugh)" 
MARISHA: Go! He has a fly speed of 40 feet. 
MATT: "What's that over there?" 
MARISHA: No, no, no. Focus. 
MATT: "Oh, I'm sorry." 
MARISHA: He's right over there. (laughter) 
MATT: "Okay." 
MARISHA: Focus. Okay? And Pâté, stay, stay this way so you don't get sucked into a black hole. So, go this way. 
MATT: "Stay away from a hole to get to a hole." 
MARISHA: Yes. 
LIAM: (laughs) 
MARISHA: You know, double negatives make a positive. 
LAURA: His little rat fingers did this. 
MATT: Yep. "Ey!" Tiny little-- 
LAURA, LIAM, and MARISHA: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: (like Pâté) Yeah! 
MATT: All right, what's his fly speed? 
MARISHA: 40. 
MATT: 40. So from there-- 
ASHLEY: Fly into that hole. 
LAURA: Can you summon him farther away from you? 
LIAM: Can he go behind the crystals? 
ROBBIE: Get in that neck meat. 
MATT: He can get up there. 
MARISHA: No, can he get to Ludinus? 
MATT: To Ludinus? 
MARISHA: Yeah, I want to get him to get to touch his neck. 
MATT: Right. 40 feet, to get around, He would not be able to. He would get most of the way. Let's see here. If he goes down-- 
MARISHA: He can't cut across? 
MATT: Hold on. Let me see, let me see. If he flies down-- No, if he flies down he can get-- 
LIAM: In a straight line. 
MATT: -- right there. 
ASHLEY: Goosh. 
LAURA: Yeah! 
MATT: Yeah. It just-- 
MARISHA: Is that up against him? 
MATT: That within melee, yes. 
MARISHA: Okay. I want him to latch on to the back of his neck-- 
LAURA: Pâté's just like-- 
ASHLEY: (Pâté humping excitedly) 
LAURA: -- humping his leg. 
MARISHA: -- and I want to do a touch spell-- 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: Uh-huh. 
LAURA: I think I stink. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MARISHA: -- through him, Shocking Grasp, because I can cast spells through Pâté. 
MATT: That's true! You can, yeah. 
LAURA: I can't smell anything. 
MARISHA: Is Pâté on the back of his neck? 
MATT: Pâté is reaching for the back of his neck, yeah. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
LAURA: You don't smell it either? 
MARISHA: Back of his neck. 
MATT: Yeah, I got you. 
MARISHA: All right. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Yes, that's what I'm saying. 
MATT: So, it's a roll to him, right? 
MARISHA: Yes. So plus 12, so 14 up. Oh wait, wait, wait. I have advantage for that, or I've got inspiration. (panicked bumbling) 
LAURA: Hummina-hummina. 
MARISHA: Hummina-hummina. 
ASHLEY: Hummina-hummina, hummina-hummina. 
TALIESIN: Oh wow. 
MARISHA: Ooh! Ooh! I rolled a 14 plus nine, so that's what I needed, was a 14! Because plus 12. 
MATT: What's the total? 
MARISHA: So 14, 12 is 26, plus another nine because I have inspiration, so that is-- 
SAM: 35. 
LIAM: 35. 
MARISHA: -- 35. 
MATT: That hits. 
LAURA: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: Oh yes! 
TRAVIS: You did it! 
LAURA: (Vex) Destroy him, Laudna. 
MARISHA: I did! 
TRAVIS: You did it! 
ROBBIE: Something bad's about to happen. 
LAURA: Oh wait, I was Vex. 
ROBBIE: This is a lot. 
LAURA: (Imogen) Destroy him, Laudna. 
MARISHA: So-- 
MATT: So-- 
ASHLEY: Kill him. Kill him! 
LIAM: (as Imogen) Darling! 
MATT: Chetney. 
LAURA: Darling! 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
SAM: What? 
LAURA: Baby cakes. 
MATT: As you're holding on, the winds pulling back, you're on the cusp of falling back into the spell and you see Ludinus steps through the boundary and this soft chuckle, (Ludinus) "(chuckles smugly) I've waited for this for so long." (Pâté slurping and dive bombing) (laughter) 
MATT: (Ludinus) "What's that? What's that?" He starts humping him from behind. (laughter) 
MATT: "What the sh-- What's going on?" 
LAURA: (laughs) What the shit. 
MATT: "Fucking shit!" Roll damage. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Pâté almost kills Ludinus. 
LAURA: Oh my god, if this is the moment... 
MARISHA: Okay, so it's 3d8 for Shocking Grasp. Pretty mid roll. Seven, 10, 12. 
MATT: 12 points of damage. All righty. 
ASHLEY: Good boy. 
MATT: Roll for concentration, DC's 10. 
LAURA: But wait, does he add the d8? 
MARISHA: Do I get my necrotic? 
LIAM: He got a natural one! 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: He will spend a legendary resistance to succeed. 
TRAVIS: Oh. (groaning) 
ASHLEY: So that's his third legendary resistance? 
LAURA: But you also get to do-- 
MARISHA: But I hit his hole. 
MATT: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Because he spent two. 
MATT: So you do an additional 8d6 necrotic damage. 
MARISHA: So wouldn't we add that to the total for his concentration save? 
MATT: It would, yeah, but he automatically succeeds-- 
LAURA: He used his legendary. 
LIAM: He auto saved it. 
MATT: -- because of legendary resistance. 
LAURA: He rolled a one, he would've failed it. 
MARISHA: That's fair. That's fine. 
MATT: He would've, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Burned a legendary resistance. 
MARISHA: Goddamn it, I was trying to knock that thing off so bad. 
LIAM: Yeah. Sure. 
MATT: I know. 
MARISHA: Okay. Three, six, nine, 14. Four more. 
LIAM: ♪ Dee-dee-dee-dee ♪ 
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm. What did I just say? 14? 
TRAVIS and MATT: 14. 
MARISHA: 15 plus eight is going to be 23. 
MATT: 23. 
MARISHA: Plus another three, 26. 
MATT: 26. All right, an additional 26 damage on that and roll a d6 for me. 
LAURA: To take his spells away. 
MARISHA: Oh right, right, right. 
LAURA: Six, roll a six. 
MARISHA: Roll high! Six! 
LAURA and SAM: Ah! 
ROBBIE: Yay. 
MATT: Seven spells, oh man. Okay. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
TRAVIS: Whoa! 
ASHLEY: Awesome! Awesome! 
MARISHA: (adrenaline grunt) 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Good turn, good turn, good turn. 
MATT: He's going to lose a 4th and 3rd-level spell slot on that one. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, baby. 
ROBBIE: Wow. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. That was a great turn. 
ASHLEY: That was a really good turn. 
MATT: As you cast the Shocking Grasp through, Pâté is chuckling while humping the back of Ludinus's head. 
MARISHA: He's just going to town. 
MATT: "You just-- What the--" Reaches back, just as-- (electric shock) (Ludinus screaming) Tears him from the back and throws Pâté into the rock. (impacts) (Pâté) "(groans) Worth it." 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: Sinks down as Ludinus pulls his hand back and there's black blood and a weird, maple syrup texture liquid coming out of where it was. 
LAURA: Ew! 
MATT: (grunts) 
LIAM: I want to taste it. 
LAURA: Out of his fleshy hole? 
ASHLEY: Coo, cool. 
LAURA: Maple syrup? 
MATT: It's not a hole, but-- (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Maple syrup comes out of holes. 
TRAVIS: Now it is. 
MARISHA: Now it is, yeah! (laughter) 
LAURA: Canon. 
MATT: But yeah, he did not appreciate that. 
ASHLEY: Is it tasty? 
MARISHA: So, he spiked-- 
ASHLEY: Is he scrumptious? 
MARISHA: -- Pâté against the rock, you said? 
MATT: Yeah, I mean just, narratively just threw him against the rock. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: Pâté's still right there next to him. 
MARISHA: He's still there. I-- (sighs) God, I can-- 
SAM: Technically, Pâté might take a bunch of Moonbeam damage. 
MATT: Because he just moved into the radius, right? 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Okay, let's roll it up. 
TRAVIS: ♪ Roll it up ♪ 
LAURA: What's the radius of the Moonbeam? 
ROBBIE: That's very honest of you. 
SAM: Five feet. 
MATT: It's a five foot radius on him. So Pâté rushes in, does this, and then roll a constitution saving throw for Pâté. 
ASHLEY: Come on, Pâté. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
LAURA: So wait, it's a five feet radius all around Ludinus? 
SAM: It's just around Ludinus. 
LAURA: What does it do? 
LIAM: It's like a spotlight. 
SAM: It burns anything around-- 
MARISHA: Plus my-- 
SAM: -- him, including him. 
MARISHA: -- spellcasting ability, right? 
LAURA: Okay, got it. 
TALIESIN: So, anybody who's-- 
ROBBIE: Does that mean you can't scrap with him? 
TALIESIN: -- a contact fighter is a little, mildly fucked. 
LAURA: Yes. 
SAM: I can drop it. 
MARISHA: I think that should be good. 
MATT: You could also move it five feet inward, too. 
SAM: I can-- 
MATT: Put it this way. If you wanted to center it in a way where it aimed towards where the barrier was-- 
SAM: Sure. 
MATT: -- so that it would hit him, it wouldn't hit the radius around, I'll allow it. 
SAM: That would be nice, yes. 
MATT: I'll allow that. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: Since you wouldn't want to hurt your friends. 
SAM: I definitely would not. 
MATT: So don't worry about that for now. 
SAM: Okay, good, good, good. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: But if you don't move it and Ludinus moves in closer, then it would become an issue. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: Does that finish your turn, Laudna? 
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm trying to figure out if I want to Quicken a spell. 
MATT: Up to you. 
MARISHA: I think I'll stay there. I'm trying to conserve points. 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: For better or for worse. 
MATT: Okay. Where you are right now standing, you cannot actually see Ludinus. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: He's out of range. But Pâté does give you the vision. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: All right, so with that finished, Ashton, you're up. Make a strength saving throw for for me, please. 
ASHLEY: Come on. 
TALIESIN: Nat 20. 
MATT: Yeah. 
ASHLEY, LIAM, and ROBBIE: Yes! 
MARISHA: Nice! Let's go, baby. 
MATT: You're right on the cusp of where the radius is. You're gliding through the rock and glass best you can. 
LIAM: Let's go, stone soup! 
TALIESIN: So do I feel the same pull? My legs are, if I sink them down, do I feel the same gravitational pull underneath the ground that I do-- 
MATT: It still pulls on you, but you're slightly better anchored. I would give you advantage if you didn't already have it on the saving throws. 
TALIESIN: Okay, yeah. I just have it. Okay, but my speed is not going to be affected by this? 
MATT: Because you're gliding, I will say no. You can move your normal speed because you are not affected by rough terrain and the tug on this because you are actually gliding through the ground. 
TALIESIN: Fucking in. All right. 
MATT: In your form, I'll allow that. 
TALIESIN: Awesome. 
LIAM: Sweet, sweet, sweet. 
TALIESIN: In that case, what's the best way to do this? I am going to head-- 
LIAM: Let's go punk rock, come on. 
TALIESIN: -- 80 feet towards Laudna. 
MATT: Towards Laudna? You got it. 
TALIESIN: I'll drop under the ground for that, because I think there's five feet, so can I get my whole body underneath the ground for that, or no? 
MATT: Roll a d4 for me. 
TALIESIN: Done. 
MATT: On a four to six-- 
TALIESIN: Four. 
MATT: Four? You cannot get completely underground. But you can halfway get in there. 
TALIESIN: Okay, no worries about it, then. Well, no, I'll take it. Then yeah, I'm going to sit and wait. 
MATT: That's your move and your action. You dashed there. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay, cool. 
TALIESIN: All good. 
MATT: That finishes your go. All right, finishing Ashton's go, Dorian, you're up, with Imogen on deck. 
ROBBIE: Can I ask a question about how-- 
TRAVIS: No! 
ROBBIE: --the Pâté event unfolded? You said, did he walk forward through the first barrier? I want to know what his relationship to the barriers are right now. 
MATT: Well, from where you are-- 
LIAM: Dispelled the outer layer. 
MATT: --all you saw was him step through it. You saw the edge of the boundary, and he walked through it and out of your sight. 
ROBBIE: All right. 
SAM: Pâté seemed to be able to pass through it as well? 
MATT: Pâté is just on the outside of where he was. 
SAM: Ah. 
ROBBIE: I denied my movement last time, but would I be able to have Coriolis scoop me up and use his movement? 
MATT: Oh, Coriolis? 
ROBBIE: Yeah, he's still on the board, I guess. 
MATT: Yeah, so you had him following over there. Coriolis, we'll say with his movement, well, first off, Coriolis, make a strength saving throw. 
ROBBIE: Oh my god, that's right! He's in the pits! 
MATT: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: Oh my god. 
TRAVIS: What was the scientific name, Sam? 
SAM: Equus Caballeros? 
TRAVIS: Caballeros. 
ROBBIE: Where's the saving-- No, I can't. He's in the pit. 
TRAVIS: Equus... 
ROBBIE: He's in the pit. 
TRAVIS: Coriolis? 
ROBBIE: That's okay. That changes it. That's fine. No, no, got to play it. 
TRAVIS: No! 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Not the pits! 
ROBBIE: He's in the pits. 
MATT: Coriolis takes-- 
MARISHA: No, buddy boy! 
ASHLEY: No! He's so cute. 
MATT: 11, 12, 13. 21 points of force damage. 
ROBBIE: He's still alive, for now. 
MATT: Coriolis is restrained. 
ROBBIE: Okay. Thank you so much. 
TRAVIS: ♪ Thank you so much for touching me ♪ 
ROBBIE: All right, then he's out of the picture. I'll use my movement to cut straight in front of Ashton, 40 feet. 
MARISHA: Just be careful. Don't get sucked in. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, the same thing. 
TRAVIS: Just be careful. 
MATT: 5, 10, 15, 20. 
SAM: Don't get sucked into Ashton's beautiful blue eyes. 
TALIESIN: I think you will. 
MARISHA: Yeah, I think you just have line of sight. 
MATT: Okay, so it's 25 feet there. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
MATT: You can see Ludinus from where you are, and you still have more movement, if you like. 
ROBBIE: I want to use it all to get as close as possible, I guess. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, I'm not scared. 
MATT: 30. You said-- 
ROBBIE: I have 40. 
MATT: 35, 40 gets you right there. 
ROBBIE: Cool, I'm going to wing a Lightning Bolt at him. 
MATT: From where you are-- 
ROBBIE: Oh, can't hit it? 
MATT: -- if you get him with a Lightning Bolt, you will likely also hit Pâté. Well-- Is he still earthbound? 
LAURA: He would be. 
ASHLEY: He would be, because... 
MATT: You've maintained concentration? 
ASHLEY: Well, I haven't rolled for it. 
TRAVIS: ♪ (jazz scatting) ♪ 
MATT: That's fair, you would've kept it up. Make a concentration check for me. 
ROBBIE: You know what? 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LIAM: ♪ Bebop, boop boop ♪ 
ASHLEY: I get advantage to maintain my concentration. 
MARISHA: But Pâté's so tiny. Can you just-- 
ROBBIE: No, no no no, I'm going to leave him alive for you. 
LIAM: What's this? 
ASHLEY: Not very good. 
LIAM: Is this the cough test? 
ASHLEY: 12. 
MATT: 12. You didn't take more than 25 damage I think it was. 
ASHLEY: Uh-uh. 
MATT: So I think you're okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. No, you're right. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Positioning stuff. All right, scratch that. I'll keep Pâté alive. I'll use the rest of my turn. I'll use another 40 feet, use my winged boots-- 
MATT: Actually. 
ROBBIE: Hmm? 
MATT: Yeah, if you want to use your winged boots as part of this you could fly up a little bit. 
ROBBIE: Yeah? 
MATT: Then there, you would have an angle to hit him. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
MARISHA: Yeah! 
MATT: If you wanted to. 
SAM: ♪ (scatting) ♪ 
ROBBIE: That's still such a threat. Who's still in threat of the-- 
LAURA: All of us. 
ROBBIE: Everybody's still in threat? All right, I'll do that. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Let's do that. 
MATT: You got it, so we're putting you-- 
ASHLEY: ♪ Bebop ba-doo ♪ 
LAURA: ♪ Bebop ba-doo ♪ 
ROBBIE: ♪ Boop boop boop ♪ We'll do, yeah, 4th-- No, no, no. Fuck it, 5th-level. 
MATT: 5th-level Lightning Bolt into Ludinus Da'leth. All righty. 
ROBBIE: Yeah! 
LAURA: Yes! 
MATT: Dexterity saving throw. 
ROBBIE: 16. 
MATT: He succeeds. 
ROBBIE: Got it. Cool, so he takes half of this? 
MATT: Correct. 
ROBBIE: 14. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: 14. How many is it? 10? 10d6? 
MATT: For a 5th-level? 
ROBBIE: 5th-level? 
MATT: Yeah, 10d6. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, okay. 14, 24, 32, 33. 
MATT: 33 points. That takes us to 16 points of lightning damage. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: It strikes through. (intense crackles) He takes the hit. To roll for this, DC 10, maintain concentration. That is going to be-- That's a fail. (gasping) 
MATT: He's going to use-- 
LIAM: He rolled a three. 
MATT: --a second Legendary Resistance. (groaning) 
ASHLEY: Damn. 
MARISHA: He's burning through those resistances. 
TRAVIS: You get three of those? 
ROBBIE: He's so cool! 
LAURA: He's got three resistances? 
TRAVIS: Usually three. 
MATT: Usually three. 
LAURA: Three per turn, or three-- 
TRAVIS: Usually three. 
LAURA: Three per turn? 
TRAVIS: All in, I-- 
ASHLEY: Round? 
LAURA: Forever? 
MATT: Usually it's three. For a legendary creature. 
TRAVIS: Holy crap. 
ASHLEY: Usually, though? 
SAM: Could be four. 
MATT: (impact) The blast hits him. 
ASHLEY: Usually. Could be more. 
SAM: Could be three and a half! 
MATT: Redoubles his concentration and keeps pushing on the barrier. 
ASHLEY: Could be five. 
MATT: He's more or less swatting you off like flies and keeping focused on his continued-- 
TRAVIS: More or less? 
MATT: -- march towards what lies beyond-- 
LAURA: How much damage did you just do to him? 
MATT: -- the cage. 
TRAVIS: 16. 
ROBBIE: (raspberry) 16. 
LIAM: Matt, Taliesin said he's going home, and for his turns, to send him straight down-- (laughter) 
LIAM: -- for Ashton's movement. (laughter) (laughter) 
ROBBIE: For my bonus action, I'll turn to Laudna, I'll say-- So close! Sheboygan! I'll use Healing Word. (laughter) 
MARISHA: For me? 
MATT: Healing Word, you can't cast two spells-- 
ROBBIE: Oh, two spells! It's not a cantrip! Oh that's right. Yeah, yeah, never mind. 
SAM: You can do inspiration. 
ROBBIE: I'm out, I'm out. 
MATT: Do an inspiration, if you want to. 
ROBBIE: No, I'm good. Only got one left. 
MATT: You got it. All right-- 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: -- finishing your turn, Dorian. 
ROBBIE: That's another spell. 
MARISHA: But you did good! 
MATT: Imogen, you're up. 
LIAM: Good luck. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Does that do anything for you? 
LAURA: Well, I don't know. Does it? Do I know? 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
MATT: Part of your turn-- 
LAURA: But I'm on the other side of this big rock, right? 
ROBBIE: Oh! Doing the test! 
MATT: You are. Make a strength saving throw. 
SAM: This is the rock test. 
MATT: You have advantage on it, and the DC is lower because you're in between. 
TRAVIS: You're tumbling around. 
LIAM: Kool-Aid Man through it. 
MARISHA: Advantage, and the DC is lower. 
TRAVIS: Like an anti-gravity jet. 
LAURA: Come on, come on, come on. 
MATT: So based on your current-- Yep. 
LIAM: Oh boy. 
MATT: So the DC is 16 right now. 
SAM: Okay, okay. 
ROBBIE: Come on! 
LAURA: Still so fucking high. 
LIAM: Jeez. 
LAURA: Okay. 
LIAM: Whoa, hey! 
TRAVIS: What was that shit? 
ASHLEY: Wait, wait! 
SAM: That's the craziest roll you've ever done. 
ASHLEY: Did you roll this one? 
LAURA: No, that's not what I rolled. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
TRAVIS: You didn't mean to roll-- 
LAURA: I didn't mean to roll-- 
TRAVIS and LAURA: -- either of those. (laughter) 
LAURA: Should it count? 
MATT: If you didn't mean to roll it, reroll it. 
LAURA: Okay. 
LIAM: I don't think so. 
LAURA: Jesus Christ. 
TRAVIS: Almost took my eye out. Please give me an instant replay. 
LAURA: They were both-- 
LIAM: They're worse. She went worse. 
LAURA: They're worse. But it doesn't matter, they would've failed either way, so I fail. 
MATT: So you are holding onto the other edge, trying to figure out what to do. 
ASHLEY: Dang it! 
MATT: Your feet begin to lift up off the ground, and you lose your hold against it as you tumble over the top. 
LIAM: Dang. 
MARISHA: Fuck this spell, man. 
ASHLEY: Since I'm next, can I try to use my action to try to put my staff out or something so she doesn't go in there? 
LAURA: That would be a reaction. 
MATT: That would be to hold your action to try and do that. 
ASHLEY: (grumbles) 
ROBBIE and TRAVIS: (grumble) 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I was seeing if I could try-- 
ROBBIE: We try, we try. 
ASHLEY: We try, we try. 
ROBBIE: I gave you four points of health. 
MATT: That's not too bad. Take 20 points of force damage. 
MARISHA: Hey, every little bit counts. 
LAURA: Cool. 
ASHLEY: Damn it. 
LAURA: I felt so good for just a second when I didn't get in there before. Okay, so what I'm going to do-- 
TRAVIS: It's all backlit, that's cool. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LAURA: --from where I am now-- 
ASHLEY: From there? 
TRAVIS: This is a great seat. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: My seat sucks ass. 
LAURA: I'm over 120 feet away from him now, correct? 
MATT: You are currently, yes. 
LAURA: All right, cool, awesome, swell. Then I'm going to try and cast a level five Lightning Bolt. I'm going to use a distance-- I'm going to-- 
MATT: Distant spell. Okay. 
LAURA: -- double the distance. 
ASHLEY: ♪ Double the distance ♪ 
LAURA: Which will definitely hit him. I mean, definitely be far-- 
MATT: It will be. Fearne is currently in between the two of you. 
LAURA: Oh, is right in the way? Okay, well, I don't want to hit Fearne. 
SAM: Oh, come on. 
MATT: I'll tell you what. You got pulled over this way. (laughter) 
MATT: The angle would put you technically about there. 
ROBBIE: (dismissive noises) 
TRAVIS: Break a few things. 
MATT: You could aim through the-- 
LAURA: Right between? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: I'd allow that. 
LAURA: Okay, okay. 
MATT: Okay. You are restrained still. 
ASHLEY: She was screaming at me. I would also do stuff, maybe. 
MATT: No, I got it. 
LAURA: Sorry, sorry, I should've-- 
MATT: No, it's okay. All right, so that's a dex save on his point there. Natural 19, so he succeeds, but roll your damage for this. 
LAURA: Okay. 10d6, cool. 
SAM: That's going to be great. It's going to make him drop concentration for sure. 
LAURA: That's the whole-- 
SAM: This is going to do it. 
LAURA: But then he's going to roll a resistance again. 
LIAM: Well-- 
TALIESIN: It'll be one more gone. 
MARISHA: Yeah, exactly. 
LAURA: Six, 10. 
ASHLEY: He's gotten rid of two? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: 10, 15, 17. 
SAM: ♪ (scatting) 
ASHLEY: Aye, aye, aye, aye, aye. 
SAM: What am I going to do? 
LAURA: 23, 25, 31. 33 points. 
ASHLEY: Nice. 
MATT: 33 points of damage. 
LAURA: That was-- I rolled low. 
MATT: So that would be 16 points of lightning damage total, strikes him for the DC. Just a straight roll. That would be enough, unfortunately. Succeeds on his concentration check. 
LIAM: (groans) 
MATT: The bolt of lightning strikes him, but you can see the psychic field reflexively appear behind him and the bolt hits it and it seems to ground itself, crackle around, and still get to him and still shock him, but a lot of it has been disseminated into the nearby rock. 
LAURA: Okay. Okay. Let me think for a second. I think that's everything I can do. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Tough. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Does that finish your turn? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay, end of your turn, he's now getting a little more frustrated. "Let's make the race more interesting." He's going to spend two of his Legendary Actions to do Rapid Cast. He's going to cast Chain Lightning on you. 
ASHLEY: Oh god. 
ROBBIE: Oh! I know, big floating target. 
SAM: But you're so-- You're just a guy. You're just a blue guy. 
MARISHA: I hate this. 
ASHLEY: Just a guy. He's a little guy. 
MATT: Each target within 30 feet of him-- 
MARISHA: Oh, fuck me. 
LIAM: Ooh... 
MATT: That's going to be Chetney. 
LIAM: Dang! 
ROBBIE: Wow. 
MATT: It's going to be Ashton. 
LIAM: Dang! 
MATT: It's going to be Laudna. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Technically Pâté as well. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 
MARISHA: My baby boy! 
ROBBIE: Sorry, guys. 
ASHLEY: Baby! 
LIAM: You're the center of that ball. 
TRAVIS: What if Pâté jumped heroically in front of me? 
ROBBIE: Avert suffering. 
MARISHA: (exaggerated groan) 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: Please let it sound like that. (groans) No! It's like Schwarzenegger doing-- 
MATT: Shitty-ass fucking-- 
TRAVIS: (Schwarzenegger groans) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: See the Schwarzenegger reacts, make him roll shitty. 
MATT: That's only 30 points of lightning damage. That could've been a lot higher at 10d8. 
MARISHA: Do we get a dodge-- 
MATT: Yeah, a dexterity saving throw from each of you. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Dex? 
SAM: Dexy. 
MARISHA: Okay, for Pâté. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: Ugh. 
ROBBIE: This one. 
MARISHA: Nine. 
MATT: 30 points of lightning damage to Pâté. 
ROBBIE: Jeez. 
MATT: Did he survive? 
MARISHA: He does survive. 
MATT: Oof. 
TRAVIS: Pâté is chunky. 
MARISHA: No! 
LIAM: How many points? 
MARISHA: No, he does not survive. I'm sorry, I was looking at his fly speed. 
LIAM: A familiar? 
MARISHA: He goes poo-poofs. 
ASHLEY: Oh no. 
MATT: (as Pâté) "I did it all for the nookie!" (laughter) 
MATT: Vanishes into a magical burst of nothing. 
MARISHA: He tried to save you, Chet! He tried! 
TRAVIS: I get black molasses splatter all over me. 
ROBBIE and SAM: (groan) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: I rolled so many ones on that. 
MARISHA: 18 for me. 
TRAVIS: From Ludinus's neck hole. 
MATT: 18 fails. 30 points of lightning damage. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: Chetney? 
TRAVIS: 25. 
MATT: 25 is a success. You take 15 points of lightning damage. 
ROBBIE: Fail. 
LAURA: Oh, fucking fuck. 
MATT: 30 points of lightning damage. 
TALIESIN: 23. 
LIAM: Oh no. 
ROBBIE: Dude, and my dex is crazy. 
MATT: 23? Success, 15 points of lightning damage. 
MARISHA: Are you? 
ROBBIE: I haven't. 
MATT: All righty. 
SAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: You haven't, the whole night? 
MATT: Finishing Imogen's go, a shift of nearby light, Ashton, catches your-- Actually, catches Laudna and Ashton's and Dorian's eye. 
TRAVIS: Reinforcements! 
MATT: As around the edge of this-- 
ROBBIE: No. 
MATT: --a shimmer of light seems to emerge. 
ASHLEY: Why? 
ROBBIE: No. 
MATT: A familiar form peeks around the corner. 
ASHLEY: Why? 
ROBBIE: Yes? 
SAM: Could be...? 
MATT: "I'm here to just watch him fail." 
TRAVIS: Nightmare King! (cheering) 
ROBBIE: We needed you so bad! 
LAURA: Ira! 
ROBBIE: There he is! 
MARISHA: Come on, come on! 
ASHLEY: Big boy! 
MATT: Now you want to know what that blue thing is? (oohing) 
TRAVIS: That's right! 
ROBBIE: Took him a minute. 
MARISHA: Okay, okay. 
LAURA: He could have helped us-- 
TRAVIS: Let other people do the work. 
LAURA: -- get out of this fucking hole? 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: And was like, let you all go in first. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
MATT: See how it goes, and then cruise around best he can-- 
TRAVIS: Wow. 
MATT: --after Dimension Dooring to that side. You watch him (magic poof) He Dimension Doors to the opposite side of the chamber. He's going to go ahead and, let's see, take his speed of 40 feet. He's first going to go into his nightmare form as a bonus action, so you watch as he appears-- 
ASHLEY: Nightmare form?! 
MATT: --and looks over towards you and one of his giant, black eyes winks, but when it closes, it folds into itself, and you watch as his skin seems to almost tear off, leaving a black shadow version of him behind. (snarls) 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
MATT: He now looks like a scattered, blackened, jagged shadow version of himself, where even his clothing, his tails are flickering and made of black energy and darkness. 
SAM: Cool. 
MATT: Where his black eyes were, now it's these white, vacuous orbs. We'll say he turns into a negative version of himself. 
MARISHA: In my Form of Dread where I have just eye sockets, no eyes, I also wink, and a little bit of black splurts out. (laughter) 
MARISHA: I'm like, yeah! 
MATT: Okay, and then he is going to leap this way. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: This way. 
ROBBIE: How tall is he? 
MATT: He's going to get there. 
MARISHA: I'm trying to remember-- 
LIAM: 12 or 15 feet, I think. 
MATT: About there. He is within 30 feet of Ludinus. 
LIAM: Yeah, he's tall. 
MARISHA: I thought he was eight-- 
MATT: He is... 
LIAM: No, taller. 
MATT: -- within 30 feet of Ludinus, right at the edge! 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
TALIESIN: Is he within 10 feet of me still? 
MATT: No, he's unfortunately 15 feet from you. He is going to cast-- 
TALIESIN: Damn, damn, damn, 
MATT: --Steel Wind Strike. 
SAM: Steel Wind Strike. 
LIAM: Let's go, buddy. 
MATT: So he-- 
LIAM: Let's go. 
MATT: -- gets low, and his claws extend out into these long, black, blade-like fingers. 
TRAVIS: Yes! 
MATT: He leaps into the air with a spinning flourish, and then vanishes, and you watch him, like Nightcrawler, (poofs) teleport around Ludinus in a series of dark flashes. 
LAURA: Sick. Cool. 
MATT: Then at the end of the teleport, lands right on the edge of where Ludinus is. Ludinus has to make a-- 
TRAVIS: Is Ludinus still on the inside of that first membrane layer? 
MATT: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: So he went inside there and came back out? 
MATT: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Wow, cool, okay. 
MATT: So that first glance, he teleports in that in-between space, so there is a permeability to it currently. It's been unlocked by Ludinus. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Sick. 
MATT: He has to make an attack roll against him with this. That's a natural fucking Beacon 20. I'm not even joking. (cheering) 
MATT: Right there. All right, yeah! Ira coming in to fucking help you at the end. 
LAURA: Yay, Ira! 
TRAVIS: Thanks, Orym. 
LAURA: Good old buddy. 
MATT: So that's 6d10 force damage, doubled. 
ASHLEY: 6d10 force damage doubled? 
LIAM: So 60-ish. 
ASHLEY: 12! 
LIAM: That's a 60-ish hit. 
MATT: Let's go, all right. Just because it's on your end and it's a crit, let's see what we got, so-- All right, so that's 10, 20, 30, 36 times two. 
TRAVIS: Oh my god. 
MATT: That's going to be 72 points of force damage. 
TALIESIN: Oh! 
LIAM: Beefy. 
MATT: On Ludinus. Ooh, this is not good. All these teleporting slashes before landing, and Ludinus struck there for a second, then takes all the hits at once and then crumples to a knee. So half of that, it's going to be, he has a DC of 36 he has to make on this check. 
MARISHA: Come on! 
SAM: How? 
LIAM: Let's see that roll. 
TRAVIS: 36?! 
MARISHA: He can't. 
MATT: He can't, so he'll use his last Legendary Resistance. (groaning) 
LAURA: Last Legendary Resistance. 
LIAM: Dang it. 
ROBBIE: Last! 
MATT: Last legendary resistance. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: As Ludinus (grunts in pain) "Of course you'd be here." 
LAURA: Yeah, you can. 
MATT: Ira, now at this point, flickering shadows. "It's all I've wanted for years, to watch you fail." 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: As black smoke pours out the sides of his mouth. 
MARISHA: Petty-ass bullshit, let's go. 
TRAVIS: He only took half of that 72, right? 
MATT: Hmm? 
TRAVIS: Ludinus did? Ludinus only took half-- 
LIAM: But it was a crit-- 
MATT: No, he took all of it. 
TRAVIS: Got it. 
MATT: It was a crit, but the DC is half the damage taken. 
TRAVIS: I got it, I got it, I got it. 
MATT: So that's going to finish Ira's turn. Fearne, you're up. 
TRAVIS: Wow. 
ASHLEY: Okay. All right. Ira! 
ROBBIE and LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Hey. 
TRAVIS: Be cool, Fearne, be cool. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MATT: Actually, you know what? Sorry, at the end of-- Sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off there. 
ASHLEY: No, you're fine. 
MATT: At the end of Ira's turn, he's going to use his last Legendary Action to do Psychic Blast. All creatures within five feet of Ludinus have to make a DC 22 strength saving throw. That's going to be just Ira, but he's like, "No, get the fuck out of here." Ira's going to try and make that save, which is going to be plus three. That's a natural one on Ira. 
LAURA: Oh, Ira. 
MATT: Natural 20 to a natural one. That's the way. So, Ira gets pushed 30 feet back. 
ASHLEY: This is the way. 
SAM: Oh no. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MATT: So Ludinus angrily gets up and "(intense shout)" shouts, puts his arms out, and there's this bubble ripple of psychic energy and Ira gets blasted back and catches himself on the ground. Right as he starts to stand up, you see him scooting back, slightly starting to-- 
TRAVIS: Dope. Dope. 
LAURA: Oh no! 
MATT: -- push towards the spell in the back. 
ASHLEY: Oh no. No, no, no, no. 
LAURA: No, Ira! 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MARISHA: He's got bamfy bamfs. 
ASHLEY: Do I need to check to see if I go in? Strength check? 
MATT: Yes, you do. 
ASHLEY: All right. So I get advantage. 
LAURA: Is she holding onto-- 
MARISHA: Hmm? 
LAURA: Okay. Oh, Jesus. 
ASHLEY: Ugh, come on. 
SAM: Cocked. Cocked. 
LIAM: What? 
ASHLEY: It's because I'm rolling-- 
LAURA: She's using the fucking-- 
LIAM: It's landing diagonal up. 
MATT: I know. 
ROBBIE: It's a marble. 
ASHLEY: Okay, let me use this. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
MARISHA: That's a pinball, Fearne. 
MATT: I feel like it's a novelty joke dice. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: Are you holding onto the rock? 
MATT: We didn't get the memo. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: I mean, I'm holding onto the rock so hard. 
MATT: I'm sure. 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: So... (laughter) 
ASHLEY: 15. 
MATT: 15 is not enough. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LIAM: Dang! 
TRAVIS: I love the optimism every time. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: I'm trying to see if there's anything else I can do. 
MATT: Into the void. 
LAURA: Oh hi, Fearne. (grunts) 
MATT: You take-- 
SAM: All the Ruidusborn are smooshed against a dinosaur. 
LAURA: Yeah. Good thing we're-- 
ASHLEY: Damn. 
LAURA: -- so useful in this fucking fight. 
MATT: Take 27 points of force damage. 
SAM: Oof. 
ASHLEY: 27 points of force damage? 
MATT: Correct. 
TRAVIS: Natural 20 got us here. 
LAURA: I want to cry. Yeah. It's fine. 
SAM: Now you can do your turn. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Shit! 
LAURA: We're over 120 feet away from him. 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
LAURA: Do you have a Spell Sniper? 
ASHLEY: Naur. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
TRAVIS: What are you going to do? 
ASHLEY: Well, I got to try to, I mean, can-- Would I have Mister with me, or he would be out there? 
MATT: Well, at the beginning of your turn, make a strength save for Mister. 
LAURA: But if he takes the damage, he's going to-- 
ASHLEY: Son of a bitch. 
SAM: He's going to die. 
LAURA: He gon' die. 
ASHLEY: Well, no, I'm going to leave him out there. 
LAURA: Well, you can't-- 
MATT: Well, he still hasn't made it. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
MATT: Happens automatically at the start of your turn. 
LAURA: He's a flame, though. Do flames get something? 
ASHLEY: Natural 20! 
ROBBIE: Yeah! 
LAURA: Mister! 
MATT: Mister succeeds on his save. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
TRAVIS: All right! 
ASHLEY: All right, all right. 
MARISHA: Wow. 
LAURA: Maybe you can get Braius closer. 
ASHLEY: If I can-- 
MARISHA: Warrior monkey. 
ROBBIE: That's awesome. 
ASHLEY: So would he be with me-- 
LIAM: Sticky feet. 
ASHLEY: -- or would he be where he was? 
MATT: No, he's right where he is. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: So if you wanted to, in theory-- You can hold your action, and then it's your bonus action to teleport? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: I'd allow you to have him move into the radius. He'll take the damage by moving into the radius, if you think he can survive it. Then he can try and teleport you out, then you could do an action when you're teleporting out. 
ASHLEY: Wait, how much-- 
MATT: I don't how hurt he is. 
LAURA: 20 points of damage, at least. 
ASHLEY: He might be able to make it. Hold on, I think he has 28 points left. No, he's got 37 points. 
LAURA: Oh, okay. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, he can-- 
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to have him come in, and I'm going to have-- 
MATT: So he's like, (whimpering). 
ASHLEY: Sorry, sorry. 
MATT: He's dug in the ground. (clawing ground) (questioning monkey hoot) 
ASHLEY: I'm going to have him take Imogen out. 
LAURA: He can take both of us out, can't he? 
ASHLEY: He can take us all out. Can he also take Coriolis? 
LAURA: Yeah, he can take all willing creatures. 
MATT: He can take all willing creatures that are within five feet of you or him? 
ASHLEY: Stand by. 
TRAVIS: ♪ By your man ♪ 
SAM: When does he take the damage? 
LAURA: ♪ Stand by your man ♪ 
MATT: When he enters the radius. 
SAM: When enters the radius-- 
ASHLEY: "The spirit and each willing creature-- of your choice within five feet of it--" 
SAM: -- is he within 10 feet of me? 
ASHLEY: "-- teleport to 15." 
MATT: He would be, yeah. 
SAM: So he will get resistance to the damage. 
MATT: That's good to know. 
LIAM: Ooh. 
LAURA: Oh, great! 
TALIESIN: Mm! 
ASHLEY: Okay, so it's each willing creature of your choice within five feet of it. Within five feet of Mister. 
MATT: Right. Mister can move half movement to go, but he takes half damage because it's within 10 feet. 
ASHLEY: Great. 
MATT: He pushes into it. He's like (whimpering). 
SAM: Don't worry, small monkey friend. You've got this. (laughter) 
LAURA: Maybe bamf us next to Braius. 
ROBBIE: Yeah! 
MATT: All the fur on his body and the flame is being pulled inward-- 
LAURA: Well at least if we get close to Braius, we get resistance-- 
MATT: -- where every instinct in him is to try and run away. He looks at you and (determined hoot). 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: (determined crawl) Crawls in towards-- Fighting the gravity and walking in-- 
TRAVIS: I fucking love it! 
MARISHA: Yeah, it's amazing! 
MATT: -- on his own terms. 
ASHLEY: Come on, big boy! 
TRAVIS: Fingernails. 
MATT: Pushing into the radiance-- 
ROBBIE: Poop monkey crawled into a black hole. 
MATT: -- and taking half of-- 
ASHLEY: Good boy! (laughter) 
MARISHA: I love this game. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Poop monkey crawling-- 
MATT: Oh, that's a good damage roll too. 
TRAVIS: -- into a black hole. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: I won't leave you behind! 
ROBBIE: He's crossed the event horizon. 
MATT: 29 points of force damaged halved. 
TRAVIS: He ages with every step. 
MARISHA: He has gone-- 
LAURA: 29! 
MARISHA: -- where no monkey has gone before. 
LAURA: That's so much! 
MATT: I rolled really good on the damage roll. 
ASHLEY: Got it. He's okay. 
ROBBIE: Only fitting. 
ASHLEY: He's okay. 
LIAM: Oh, to have a pet with more than four hit points. 
LAURA: I know, right? 
ASHLEY: I know, man. 
MATT: Steps up into the there. Okay, well if it has to be within five feet of it, then either you have to choose Coriolis or Imogen. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
SAM: Tough call. 
ROBBIE: Tough call. 
MATT: I know, it's a rough call. 
ROBBIE: You got to think about it. 
ASHLEY: It's rough. 
LIAM: Are you an animal lover or not? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah. Then could we go toward Braius? 
MATT: You can. 
ASHLEY: When we bamf out? 
LAURA: Would we get enough? 
MARISHA: Imogen hates horses. Confirmed. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: The anti-horse girl. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Fuck off, horse. (laughter) 
MATT: You can get there, and will get you here-- 
LAURA: (scooches) 
MATT: -- and Imogen-- 
LIAM: Zoop. 
MATT: -- out of the way, which means neither are you are restrained. 
LAURA: Okay. 
SAM: That was the bravest thing I've ever seen, young monkey friend. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: He's a brave boy. 
SAM: You have the strength of a cow. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: He's a brave boy. 
TRAVIS: Of a cow! (laughs) 
ASHLEY: All right. 
LAURA: Somebody get this thing down before our turns are up. 
ASHLEY: So-- 
MARISHA: Trying. 
ASHLEY: I still can't fucking move, right? 
SAM: I still can't fucking move. 
TRAVIS: ♪ I still can fucking move ♪ 
MATT: No, you're no longer restrained. He teleported you out of it. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: But we can't move. 
ASHLEY: But we can't move? 
MATT: You can move. 
LIAM: Can't move that far. A little bit. 
LAURA: We can move-- 
MATT: 15 feet. 
LAURA: -- 15 feet. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. Then Scorching Ray it is! 
MATT: Are you going to move beforehand, or--? 
ASHLEY: I am going to-- Yes, I am. I would like to get somewhere where I would hopefully have a little more cover. 
SAM: Well, that's not going to happen. 
ASHLEY: But that's not going to happen. 
MATT: Not really going to happen from where you're standing, unfortunately. 
ASHLEY: It's fine. It doesn't matter. It is what it is. 
ROBBIE: A girl can dream. 
MATT: This is the puzzle of the encounter. 
ASHLEY: Scorching Ray, and I'm going to do that-- Oh god, guys, I don't think I have anything spells left. 
TALIESIN: Does your movement go up in the other form? 
SAM: What? 
ASHLEY: Say again. 
TALIESIN: Does your movement go up in your fire form? 
LAURA: Yeah, you haven't turned into a fire beast yet. 
ASHLEY: I know, I was going to wait because I have it for an hour, but-- 
TALIESIN: An hour is-- 
LAURA: Now's the time! 
ASHLEY: Now's the time? 
SAM: Is it? Is it? 
LAURA: We're fighting Ludinus! 
ASHLEY: Is it? 
SAM: Is it? There's stuff after this. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, we still have Predathos. 
LIAM: We don't know. Let her do what she wants to do. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: No, it doesn't. I don't go extra. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
LAURA: We're going to fight Predathos, too?! 
ASHLEY: Scorching Ray-- 
MATT: What level? 
ASHLEY: To Ludinus. I'll do it at 6th-level. 
TALIESIN: I've got nothing left after this anyway. 
MATT: 6th-level, okay. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to shoot it at his-- 
SAM: Neck? 
ASHLEY: -- hole in his neck. 
MATT: You got it. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: It's not a hole. 
LIAM: Let's go, mini golf. 
ASHLEY: All right, so-- (laughter) 
TRAVIS: It's resembling one now. 
MATT: Sure, yeah. I guess it is a little punctured. 
TRAVIS: A hole with a little bit of drainage issues. 
ASHLEY: So that's-- 
TRAVIS: A little seepage. 
LIAM: More wedge-shaped. 
ASHLEY: -- seven hits? 
MATT: Well, it's three, and then you said casting at 6th-level? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: Right, so that would be seven attacks, yes. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: Okay. 
LAURA: Oh! 16? Oh, but you get a-- Oh, no, you're not standing next to Ashton, so you don't get a plus four. 
TALIESIN: No. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so-- 
MARISHA: Are you going for his hole? 
ASHLEY: Going for his hole. 
LAURA: 16 plus what? 
TALIESIN: Only one needs to. 
ASHLEY: 27. 
LAURA: So that one hit. 
MATT: 27 hits. 
MATT: He's going to cast Shield. 
TALIESIN: I was going to say. 
LAURA: Shield? 
LIAM: Okay. 
LAURA: That's going to affect-- 
LIAM: AC the rest of his turn, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Affect all of it? 
LIAM: So his AC's even higher. 
TRAVIS: Only one needs to go. 
ASHLEY: So this one is 30. 
LIAM: That'll do it. 
MATT: 30 misses just barely. 
LIAM: Whoa! 
LAURA: Because of the Shield. 
MATT: The Shield gives a plus five to AC. 
LAURA: You're not going to hit any of them. 
ASHLEY: I'm not going to hit any. 
MARISHA: Plus five. 
TALIESIN: So stop aiming for the hole and just hit him. Just hit the his fat ass. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LIAM: Just try to break the spell. 
TALIESIN: Motherfucking, yeah. 
ASHLEY: All right, so I'll hit his body. 
MATT: Okay, so the first two hits miss. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: The third you can go for, and this is just a 26 now because of the Shield. 
TALIESIN: What a fucker! 
LAURA: Just a 26. 
SAM: You got this! 
LIAM: Come on. 
SAM: You're Ashley fucking Johnson. 
LAURA: No. 
ASHLEY: No. 
SAM: You don't have this. 
MATT: Four more. 
ASHLEY: That's four. No, 22. 
MATT: Three more. 
ASHLEY: No. 
MATT: Two more. 
SAM: Ah? 
LAURA: Okay. 
SAM: 26. 
LAURA: That one hits. 
ASHLEY: One hits, guys. 
MATT: That one hits. I'm going to change the number on my finger. 
TRAVIS: Don't say it like that. 
SAM: That's it. 
ASHLEY: That's it. 
MATT: That's it? 
ASHLEY: One hits. 
MATT: Roll 2d6. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MARISHA: Oh man. 
SAM: This is it. You're Ashley fucking Johnson. 
ASHLEY: Also, a d8 for Mister. 
MATT: Right. 
LAURA: Okay. (laughs) Is that a seven? 
ASHLEY: 15. 
MATT: So 15 points of fire damage on him. 
SAM: Yeah. Yeah! 
MATT: Okay, great. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Take it. 
MATT: Gets hit in the shoulder or the back. 
ASHLEY: On a 6th-fucking-level. 
MATT: So it's a 10 DC. 
LIAM: Con save? 
MATT: It's a concentration check on the 10 DC. He only has a straight roll. 
SAM: But he has a plus eight or something. 
LAURA: No. 
LIAM: He rolled a two! 
MATT: Two. 
ASHLEY: So what does that mean? 
MATT: Brings it to 10. It's a plus eight on his roll. 
LIAM: So he needed to roll a one to fail? 
MATT: He needed to roll a one, yeah. 
MARISHA: He has to roll a one. 
LIAM: (groans) 
ASHLEY and TALIESIN: (groan) 
LAURA: I hate Ludinus so much. 
LIAM: He's a good wizard. 
TRAVIS: Where'd you go, bubba? 
MATT: He is a good wizard. 
LAURA: I'm gone. 
ASHLEY: No, he's a bad wizard. 
MATT: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LIAM: Dang! 
TRAVIS: Wow. 
TALIESIN: The worst wizard. 
ASHLEY: All right. That was a fucking waste. 
LIAM: Dang! 
SAM: No, it wasn't. 
MATT: No, it wasn't. It's all worth it at this point. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 
TALIESIN: Every little piece. 
SAM: What else are you going to do? 
ROBBIE: What's that mean? 
SAM: Just sit there? 
ASHLEY: I don't know. 
MATT: No, meaning everything helps burn through and push towards the goal. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
SAM: Can you do that from this distance? 
ROBBIE: Just sounded scary is all. 
LIAM: Keep it up. Keep it up. 
ASHLEY: No, I can't. You're right. 
MATT: All right Fearne, that finish your turn? 
ASHLEY: That-- 
MATT: Does Mister get to attack? 
ASHLEY: -- finishes my turn. Mister does! He gets to throw some shit. 
MATT: What's the range? 
ASHLEY: No, he did the Dimension Door thing. 
LAURA: Oh, yeah. 
MATT: Oh, that was his action. 
ASHLEY: Never mind. 
MATT: Got it. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. 
MATT: All right, so, finishing Fearne's go. Orym, you're up, with Chetney on deck. 
SAM: Top of the round. 
LIAM: He's not doing any fuckery? 
MARISHA: I know. (laughs) 
LIAM: He's not doing any fuckery. I have to save or get pulled back into the hole again, right? 
LAURA: Yes. 
MATT: Currently, yes. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: So you have-- The DC is going to be a 16 on this. 
SAM: Ashley. Don't take this out on me. 
MATT: You do advantage on the check. 
SAM and ASHLEY: (laugh) 
LAURA: I feel the same way right now! 
ASHLEY: I'm so mad! 
LIAM: Because it's dex, right? 
MATT: No, it's strength. 
LIAM: Strength, okay. I failed that. I'm going to use what I should have done before. I have one Indomitable left. 
TALIESIN: You didn't roll advantage, though, did you? 
LIAM: I did not. Why do I have advantage? 
MATT: Because you're-- 
LIAM: Oh, because of the rock. 
MATT: Because you're behind that. 
ASHLEY: Barely have any spells left. 
LIAM: Second one is barely different. So this is the Indomita-- Indomitaba-dable roll. 
ASHLEY: Indomita-bibida-ble. 
LIAM: I'm going to use, I have one last superiority die. I'm going to use Zephran Heart to try to boost it. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: 18, I rolled a 10. 
MATT: 18 succeeds. 
LIAM: Ooh! 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Let's go! 
LAURA: Good job. 
MATT: So as you clutch onto the side, you feel the gravity tugging at you at the side and you hold and you close your eyes for a second and imagine the calm winds of Zephrah. As you do, you bend like a reed with the gravity as it pulls towards you and glide along the outer edge and hold yourself in place. You feel confident that you can keep your focus and strength this round. 
LIAM: Was 18 the DC? 
LAURA: 16. 
MATT: 16 was the DC. 
LIAM: 16, okay. I rolled a 10 on that superiority die. 
MATT: Yeah, I saw that. 
LIAM: So what I'm going to do, I can't do much still, is-- 
ASHLEY: ♪ I can't do much ♪ 
SAM: ♪ I can't do much ♪ 
LIAM: -- use my movement to go 15 feet on a diagonal and then use my action to go another 15, a so full 30. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: Everybody else was just-- 
LIAM: Then I've still got the Grasping Vine spell up, so I'm going to shoot the stone-- 
LAURA: -- fighting, and I'm in the singularity putting on a fucking vest. 
LIAM: -- next to Ludinus and yank myself past Chetney. I'm completely out of gas, but I get low to the ground and bring the sword down, twist it in my hand and stare at him, and that's the end of my turn. 
MATT: All right. 
LIAM: That's it. 
ASHLEY: Nice. 
MATT: Great. So that finishes your turn, you're down, and you can feel the pull of the gravity, the Ravenous Void is no longer trained on you. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: So you're beyond the radius and spell. Great. Chetney, you're up. 
TRAVIS: Do I have to make a save against the anus hole? 
MATT: You, let's see what the radius-- (snickering) 
MATT: So that's 85 there. 90, 95, 100. You are just outside of that radius. 
TRAVIS: Amazing. 
LAURA: But it's half. 
TRAVIS: 40 feet. Can I try to-- 
LAURA: It's still difficult terrain. 
TRAVIS: Can I try to walk-- 
LAURA: Flying is difficult terrain. 
TRAVIS: -- use my speed to reach where Ludinus is? 
LAURA: I asked that because I tried to fly out of it. 
MATT: Yeah, you can get right up to him. 
TRAVIS: Great. 
ASHLEY: Ugh. 
LAURA: So I couldn't get out. 
TRAVIS: I'm going to try three attacks with just my claws out, no Turmoil. 
MATT: Yeah, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Just claws. 
TALIESIN: Damn it. 
TRAVIS: First one is-- Fuck you. Really? 
MARISHA: Oh man. 
ASHLEY: Fuck you. 
TRAVIS: Just forget that. That never happened. Second one. That's better. 28 to hit. 
MATT: 28 hits. 
TRAVIS: Amazing. Six plus 1d8. Sorry, eight, yep, okay. That's 13 points of slashing damage with six points of (clicks). 
MATT: For 19 total? 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
MATT: All righty. 
TRAVIS: And the last one-- 
MATT: Just makes a concentration check, which is a straight roll. 
TRAVIS: Oh yes. 
MARISHA: Come on. 
MATT: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Amazing. With that hit, with one more remaining, once per short rest, I'm going to use Brand of Castigation-- 
TALIESIN: (grunt of approval) 
TRAVIS: -- on Ludinus. 
MATT: Okay. Okay. 
LAURA: What does that do? 
TRAVIS: As I slash him, just below his neck hole-- 
LAURA: (laughs) 
SAM: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: -- like a rear clavicle-- (microphone rustle) 
TRAVIS: -- there is going to be an amazing C-POP Industries brand that sears-- 
LAURA: I love it. 
TRAVIS: -- right on the base of his neck. 
MATT: (brand searing) "(groans) I can taste it." He's focused forward. 
TRAVIS: Amazing. The last one. 
LAURA: What does it do? 
TRAVIS: It allows me to track him and if he tries to teleport away, then he has to roll a check against it. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay, great. 
MARISHA: Yes, yes. 
TRAVIS: Natural 20. (cheering) 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
ROBBIE: Yeah! 
MATT: Woo! 
LIAM: Chetty Chetty bang bang. 
TRAVIS: ♪ Chetty, Chetty, poke-a-pop ♪ Okay. 1d8. 
ASHLEY: He's taking down [inaudible]. 
TRAVIS: So that's-- 
MARISHA: Come on, big money. Big money. 
TRAVIS: -- seven. 14 plus six is 20 plus-- 
TRAVIS: -- seven. 14 plus six is 20 plus-- Oh, this just stays, so 24-- Double that 28 total. 
MATT: 28 damage. 
LIAM: Nice. 
MATT: So with that, the DC on this is going to be 14. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
LAURA: Maybe one more, maybe two. 
MATT: That's going to be a 19. 
TRAVIS: (growls) 
LAURA: God! 
ROBBIE: Wow. 
TRAVIS: Awesome. 
MATT: It's a good try. 
TRAVIS: Good deal. 
MATT: Finish your turn? 
TRAVIS: That's it. 
LAURA: Good job. 
MARISHA: Good round. 
LAURA: Good job, Chet. 
MATT: It's now back to Ludinus's go. 
TALIESIN: (frustrated grunt) 
MATT: Ludinus gets his legendary actions back. He's going to focus on the next boundary and you watch the next one-- 
MARISHA: Fuck! 
LIAM: (groans) 
MATT: -- dissipates. 
SAM: Ooh! Oh, at the start of his turn-- 
MATT: Mm-hmm? 
SAM: Let me look. Let me see. 
MATT: Oh, the Moonbeam? 
SAM: Yeah. Is it the start of my turn? Start of his turn? Let me see here. 
MATT: It might be the start of his turn, I think. 
SAM: "On each of your turns--" (muttered reading) 
LAURA: I think you got it. 
SAM: "When the creature enters the spell or starts a turn there." Yeah. 
MATT: Constitution save. That's going to be 16. 
LAURA: He gets disadvantage on constitution saves? 
MATT: It was until the end of it was his turn. 
LAURA: Too bad. 
SAM: Doesn't matter, he didn't pass it. 
MATT: Yeah, so that's a success, so roll that damage. 4d10 radiant damage. 
SAM: 4d10 radiant damage. 
ASHLEY: Ooh. (clapping) 
ROBBIE: Radiant, baby. 
LAURA: Ashley! 
SAM: That's 10. 
LAURA: Get a lollipop. 
ASHLEY: I wasn't going to go out there. 
LAURA: Oh, nevermind. 
ASHLEY: Going to get a tissue. 
SAM: 16. Fuck. 
LAURA: Yes! 
SAM: Just 16 points? That's so lame. (chuckling) 
LAURA: My hero! 
MATT: 16. 
SAM: 16 radiant points. 
LIAM: Not if it breaks the concentration. 
MATT: 16 points of radiant damage. He will then roll to save. Natural 20. (groaning) 
LAURA: God! 
SAM: Jesus. 
TRAVIS: I also took four points of damage. 
MATT: Okay. So that begins his turn. He dispels that next boundary there. He's going to move forward ever so slightly. 
ROBBIE: I love this fight. 
LAURA: How many bound--? Oh, no, we don't know. We don't know that. (laughter) 
LAURA: Three more. 
ROBBIE and MARISHA: (laugh) 
SAM: Hey, for Orym and Chetney. Know that there's a cylinder of flame in front of you that you might have to walk around if you're going to follow him in there. 
LIAM: Sure. 
SAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: As a bonus action he's going to cast Telekinetic Shove on you Chetney, make a strength saving throw for me. 
MARISHA: Come on, Chet. 
ROBBIE: Come on. Strong. 
MARISHA and LAURA: Stronk. 
SAM: ♪ Because I'm strong enough ♪ 
TRAVIS: That's not a 20. That's a 12. 
MARISHA: That was a d12. 
TRAVIS: Ah! They both suck! (laughter) 14. 
MATT: 14, you get pushed back 10 feet to there. 
TRAVIS: Ugh. 
MARISHA: Ah. 
MATT: Bonus action, action. That finishes his turn. Next up is Braius, with Laudna on deck. 
SAM: Oh, Jesus. 
ROBBIE: Braius, Laudna. 
SAM: I have to save, I assume? 
MATT: Yes, you do. 
ROBBIE: Come on. 
SAM: This is a d10. 
ROBBIE: Let's go! 
SAM: It's big. What was that, 15? 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
SAM: 15 plus nine, 24. 
MATT: You're fine. 
SAM: (growls) So strong! (laughter) 
MARISHA: Where are you? 
ROBBIE: Every time. 
MARISHA: This is so rough. 
LAURA: Can you just pick us up and walk? 
ROBBIE: Three saves. 
SAM: Can I? (laughs) 
MATT: If you want to try and force movement on somebody else that's an ally, it's half your movement, so. Your movement's already halved. 
SAM: I already have half my move. 
ROBBIE: Seven feet. 
SAM: (laughs) 
MATT: Yep. (laughs) 
SAM: Shit. 
ROBBIE: (chuckles) 
TRAVIS: Shit. 
TALIESIN: Want to do something-- 
LIAM: How do we-- 
SAM: Boy. 
LIAM: -- break his concentration? He's back at advantage. 
LAURA: He keeps rolling super high and now he's got advantage again. 
LIAM: Back at advantage. Yeah. 
SAM: This is so tricky because even if I used all my movement and my action to move-- 
LAURA: You still get sucked in. 
SAM: I'm still in, but if I stay near you guys, at least I can help you. 
LAURA: Mitigate our damage. 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
SAM: Yeah. 
SAM: So maybe I should stay put. 
TALIESIN: Hmm. 
SAM: Moonbeam is a fucking concentration spell, so I can't do anything with that. 
TALIESIN: Well. 
ROBBIE: Does he still have Moonbeam on him? 
LAURA: Can you move it forward to keep it-- 
ASHLEY: Hit him again. 
LAURA: Because he moved past it. 
SAM: I can move it. I can move it forward, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Still be good to hit him. 
SAM: Boy, what a terrible turn. 
ASHLEY: No. 
SAM: Yeah, I will use my action to move Moonbeam-- 
MATT: A little further in? 
SAM: Five feet or 10 feet or whatever it takes to get just in front of him. 
MATT: Right. You can probably can move it in the corner this way, it does not move past the barrier. So it kitty corners off to the side. So it's hitting him, leaving this arc of him-- 
SAM: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. 
MATT: -- open to your friends. 
SAM: I'll scoot over there, I guess behind-- 
MATT: Fearne or-- 
SAM: Mister. Or I want to be within, in case they get sucked in again, I want to be within 10 feet of the edge of the-- I guess I'll stay put if-- 
LAURA: No, you-- Yeah. 
MATT: More like move. 
SAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Close to there. So I'll reduce their damage if they get sucked in. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: Can you put your arm around my waist? 
SAM: If the lady consents. 
LAURA: In case I get sucked in and it gives me a little bit of a DC bump. 
SAM: I will put my three-fingered hand on the small of your back and I will Inspire you. 
LAURA: Oh. What is that? 
SAM: D6. 
LAURA: (mumbling) 
ASHLEY: Damn, I forgot to use that. 
ROBBIE: (clears throat) 
SAM: You can still use it next time. 
ASHLEY: I'll forget to use it. 
SAM: That's it. 
MATT: All right. That finishes your turn. That brings us to-- 
ASHLEY: I did use this. 
MATT: -- Laudna's go. 
MARISHA: Yes. Okay. 
SAM: Would you like one my d6s? 
MARISHA: What do I do? I'm going to keep scooting around the edge and move. Can I get down a little bit underneath where Dorian is? 
MATT: Five, 10, 15, 20. You could get there. 
MARISHA: We're on the edge of the hole, right? 
MATT: Yep. 
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to use this pillar for cover. 
SAM: That's what she said! (laughter) 
MARISHA: And peek around this cover, in this-- He doesn't still have his Shield up, correct? 
MATT: The Shield lasts until the next turn. 
LIAM: The start of his next turn. 
MATT: Which he lost. So yeah, it's gone. 
MARISHA: It is gone. Okay. Yeah, I mean, I'm going to-- I'm going to do this again. I'm going to three Eldritch Blasts. Actually, I'm going to bonus action Hex. 
LIAM: Is there anything that can send him-- 
MATT: You're going to Hex him. Okay. 
LIAM: -- out of there? 
TRAVIS: Pull him out? 
TALIESIN: I don't think-- If I can attack him, I can-- 
LAURA: Yank him. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: 1st-level spell. 
TALIESIN: But it's hard. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Could we-- 
TALIESIN: But I don't even know if I can get there in this round because I didn't run correctly. 
LIAM: He's burned all his auto-- His legendary saves, right? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yep. 
MARISHA: I don't have it. These are just straight rolls. Correct? 
MATT: Correct. 
LAURA: Yeah, but even at a double distance, I can't reach him with Telekinesis. I've thought of it. 
MATT: 26 to hit the back of his neck. 
LAURA: I have to be within 120 feet. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: All right. Here we go. 
TRAVIS: Bread and butter. 
SAM: Did you just do eye makeup? 
MARISHA: I know. 
TALIESIN: I think it's 21 to hit him normally. 
MARISHA: I'm afraid to do anything else because I don't want him to save. 
LAURA: So pretty. 
MARISHA: No. 
SAM: I haven't been looking at your eyes. 
MARISHA: No, unfortunately. 
ASHLEY: You've been looking at my tits? 
SAM: Uh-huh. (laughter) 
MARISHA: No. Last one. Worse. 
TRAVIS: It's tough. 
MARISHA: All bad, all bad. 
SAM: It's bad in here. 
LAURA: It's really bad in here. 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
TRAVIS: ♪ It is bad in here ♪ 
LAURA: ♪ So take off all your clothes ♪ If we take off all our clothes, do we get advantage? 
TRAVIS: Are you bartering right now? 
MATT: (chuckling) 
MARISHA: I Hexed him. 
TALIESIN: I don't think he has minis for that. 
MARISHA: So that was my bonus action to cast the spell. (laughter) 
LAURA: What if we pretend we're shooting a porn? 
SAM: Ooh! 
LAURA: Listen, guys. 
SAM: Worked before. 
TRAVIS: Tried and true. 
MATT: It has worked before. 
LIAM: Bring it back. 
SAM: One for one. 
MARISHA: Okay. Matt, can I use my last little bit of movement to tuck behind this pillar and try and hide as much as I can? 
MATT: Sure. Over there. 
LAURA: What's it feel like to have movement? 
MARISHA: Actually, you know what? (laughter) 
ROBBIE: She's wedged between a rock, so probably not. 
MARISHA: I take that back. I want to use it as three-quarters cover, but I still want to be able to see him in case I need to Counterspell his ass. 
SAM: That's what Laura says when she's constipated. (laughter) 
MATT: That's best as you can get there. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Oh boy. 
LIAM: He's a sniper, you're a sniper. 
MATT: That finishes your go. 
MARISHA: That's-- 
MATT: Ashton, you're up. 
ROBBIE: Come on, Ash. 
TALIESIN: I cannot make it to him right this round, can I? 
MATT: Are you within the radius? 
TALIESIN: 40 feet is what I got. 
MATT: You are within the radius, so yeah. The terrain is rough terrain up to here. 
TALIESIN: Okay. So. Well, I mean. Okay, so I have to make a roll to save. I'm talking about getting to him. 
MATT: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Go hit the squishy parts. 
TALIESIN: Here we go. I don't suppose being inside the rock is going to help at all. 
MATT: It gives you advantage. 
TALIESIN: Oh! Well, I already have advantage, you know. 
SAM: He has a large hole in his neck. Hit it. 
TALIESIN: Yes. 20, 32. 
MATT: You're fine. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: Jesus Christ. 
TALIESIN: I'm very big. 
MARISHA: Are you going for the hole? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, of course. I don't think I can make it, though. 40 feet? 
MATT: Okay, so 10. So 20 feet out of it here. 
TALIESIN: Okay, but I thought I could still because I'm trying to use the ground to not-- 
MATT: Oh right, yeah. So you ignore the-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: So you go to that be here. Five, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35. You can get-- 
LAURA: You can hit him! 
LIAM: Right up on him. 
TALIESIN: I can hit him? 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
TALIESIN: Oh well, this is going to be fun. All right, I am going to use-- 
TRAVIS: See and swing away. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to use my-- 
LAURA: Swing away. 
TALIESIN: -- belt and I'm making a-- I don't know if I have to do reckless or otherwise, but I'm making the shot. Here we go. Please roll well. Ah, that's 18. I'm making it, I'm so sorry I didn't call to the neck, did I? I meant to, but I'm-- 
MARISHA: No, you did a second ago. 
TALIESIN: Okay, that's fair. Thank you, I actually did. Thank you that-- 
MARISHA: You said you were going to go for it. 
TALIESIN: It's 20, 28. That's 33, 34 to hit. 
MATT: That'll hit. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Come on, baby. 
TALIESIN: So I use my belt, which also means that I add a d6 to this damage. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: So that's 3d6. 
ASHLEY: Come on, Barbie, let's go party. 
LAURA: ♪ Ooh oh ♪ 
MARISHA: ♪ Ah ah ah, yeah ♪ 
TALIESIN: All right. 3d6 damage. 
LAURA: Whoa. 
ASHLEY: Whoa 
LIAM: Lost it in your crotch? 
LAURA: Whoa, whoa. 
TALIESIN: It's gone wherever it is. That's okay, I've got-- 
LAURA: It's got sucked into your penis. (laughter) 
MARISHA: What? 
TRAVIS: What? What? 
SAM: Laura Bailey. 
TRAVIS: It got what? 
MARISHA: This fight is making us lose our minds. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. Okay. 
TRAVIS: You've got to justify that to your son at some point! 
ROBBIE: That's good. 
TALIESIN: 16, 26-- 
SAM: It got sucked into your penis. 
TALIESIN: 30 points of damage. (laughter) 
MATT: Sorry, I was distracted. 
TALIESIN: No, I totally understand. 
MATT: What was that again? 
LAURA: I don't know. 
TALIESIN: 30 points of damage. 
ASHLEY: It got sucked-- 
MARISHA: His dick has been the Gravity Well the whole time! 
ASHLEY: -- into a penis. 
TALIESIN: It went to join your fucking die, Laura! 
LIAM: That's like something out of "Kindergarten Cop." Actually, it got sucked inside your penis. 
ASHLEY: Your penis. (laughter) 
LIAM: So good. 
MATT: All right. 
TALIESIN: 30 points of damage. 
ASHLEY: Laura is five. 
MATT: 30 points of damage so a DC of d15. Yeah. 
LIAM: Double 10s. 
TALIESIN: Well, here's some other fun stuff. 
MATT: Well actually, that's double 10s and then you hit the neck. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: So roll 8d6 necrotic damage. 
ASHLEY: Does he still have Shield up? 
LAURA: No. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
LAURA: Just for you. It was just for you. 
ASHLEY: Just for you, baby. 
TALIESIN: Do I get to reroll ones and twos on this? But it's not my damage, is it? So I don't get-- 
MATT: Yeah, it's your barbarian damage. 
TALIESIN: Okay. So five, eight, 10, 11. Ugh. 
ASHLEY: Ugh. 
TALIESIN: 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20-- 23. 
LIAM: Especially bad because it was a d4. 
MATT: 23 points of damage. 
TALIESIN: And-- 
MATT: Want you to add another 10 to that which would be a failure on his concentration. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
ROBBIE: Whoa! 
LAURA: (screams) 
ASHLEY: Oh my gosh. 
MATT: He rolled double 18s, but because that first hit was the extra damage on that one, it brought the DC up an additional 10. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
MATT: Which yeah, so-- 
MARISHA: For the Gravity Well? 
ASHLEY: So, yeah. 
LAURA: Finally?! 
TRAVIS: Take it off. 
MATT: Ravenous Void. 
ASHLEY: Yes. (cheering) 
ASHLEY: Let's go, Ash. Let's go. 
MARISHA: ♪ Let's just hope it's not too late ♪ 
TALIESIN: Now, a d6 for spell slots? 
MATT: Yep, d6 plus one. 
LIAM: Worst piece of construction paper ever. 
TALIESIN: Six, seven. 
MATT: Dang, all righty. 
TALIESIN: It gets worse. 
TRAVIS: ♪ My eyes feel like ♪ ♪ they're gonna bleed ♪ 
TALIESIN: So he's trying to get through what is a solid wall right now. 
MATT: More or less. 
TALIESIN: So if I tried to move him-- 
MATT: It's not solid. But it is definitely resisting him as if it was. 
TALIESIN: Okay, so if I-- 
LIAM: Grab his skull. 
TALIESIN: Also pushed him 15 feet away from me? I don't know what that would quite do. 
MATT: Well, do you want to try? 
MARISHA: 15 feet away, what? Back? 
LAURA: He would go (thudding) 
TALIESIN: Technically, it would be 15 feet. It would be technically directly away from me. 
MATT: Which would be into the wall. 
LIAM: Guys, what if he beaned him through the last three? (laughter) 
TALIESIN: That'd be hilarious. But I can also move somebody five feet in any direction I want. So that wouldn't be possible to move him and then have the throw. 
MATT: No, no. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
MATT: So the push and then that. What do you want to do? 
TALIESIN: I'm going to hold the shove and I'm going to move him five feet. 
MARISHA: Can you move him-- Just get in between? 
TALIESIN: Five feet to the left of me so that he's in the middle of all that bullshit. 
LAURA: He's next to-- 
MATT: Unfortunately, there's no room to move him more than that. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
MATT: Because you're big and he's big. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
MATT: So occupying the space. 
TALIESIN: For my next attack. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: For my next attack. 
TRAVIS: Love it. 
TALIESIN: That's 17, 18, 19. 19, 29. Yeah, that hits, I assume. 
MATT: 29? 
TALIESIN: 29. Yeah, 32 altogether. Damage on that is 2d6 plus two. Damage on that is 2d6 plus two. Yeah! 14. 
LAURA: Woof! 
TRAVIS: I love the pre-commentary. 
TALIESIN: 20, 25 points of damage. 
LAURA: That's pretty great. 
MATT: He's looking hurt. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm trying to-- 
SAM: Whoa. 
TRAVIS: What? He's looking hurt? 
TALIESIN: I only get two attacks. It's been a while, my brain is like mush right now. 
TRAVIS: Does he have a jewel on his forehead and looked like he's made of snow cones? 
MATT: No. 
TALIESIN: I do not get a third attack, if I recall. 
MATT: No. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
SAM: How about a fourth or fifth? 
TALIESIN: I'm trying to figure out a thing to do. 
MATT: It's 17 more attacks. 
TALIESIN: No, I was just-- 
MATT: No, Laura Bailey. (laughter) 
MATT: Only Vax can do that. 
TALIESIN: I think I should've done that. 
LAURA: Those boats! 
TALIESIN: I should have done that other thing. That's okay. I'm good, I think. 
MATT: All right, finishing Ashton's go. 
MARISHA: Unless, did you hit him in the back of the neck? 
TALIESIN: It wouldn't have mattered for the second hit, but I did anyway because I rolled the same thing. 
TRAVIS: I got to stop focusing on the back of the neck. We're whiffing too many. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: So kill. 
TALIESIN: I'm shooting for it because I hit real hard. 
MATT: Okay, end of your turn, he's going to angrily use two of his legendary actions to rapid cast. He's going to drop another Chain Lightning. 
TALIESIN: Cool. 
MATT: That's his last 6th-level spell. So with that, that's going to be-- 
TALIESIN: I'm out of attack shit. 
MATT: Lightning damage. That's going to be once again targeting you, Dorian. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: It's going to (zapping) sparkle off into-- 
TALIESIN: Always. 
MATT: All of you. 
MARISHA: Counterspell. 
SAM: Ooh! 
MATT: Counterspell? 
MARISHA: 5th-level. 
TRAVIS: Wait. 
MATT: 5th-level? All right. 
MARISHA: I hope this isn't a mistake. 
MATT: He's going to-- 
MARISHA: As per uzhe. 
MATT: -- Counterspell at 5th-level as well. So Counterspells your Counterspell. 
ASHLEY: Ugh. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
LAURA: But that used his reaction. 
MATT: Wizards! (laughs) 
LIAM: And you used the slot. 
MARISHA: Used his reaction and a 5th-level slot. 
SAM: Silvery Barbs. 
MARISHA: (unhappy tongue waggling) (laughter) 
MATT: That's a much better damage roll. 
MARISHA: (unhappy tongue waggling) 
MATT: 20. (laughter) 
LIAM: Is that the hole on the back of his neck? 
MARISHA: Pâté. 
ROBBIE: What are those numbers? 
MATT: That's 54 points of lightning damage. 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
SAM: Oh. 
LIAM: How much now? 
MATT: 54 points of lightning damage. 
LAURA: To everyone in 30 feet? 
LIAM: With dex save? 
MATT: So dex saves to resist that. 
LIAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
LIAM: Okay, I did very well. 
TRAVIS: Does that hit me, too? 
TALIESIN: Oh, are you within 10 feet of me? Add a d4. 
LIAM: Okay, I am. 
ROBBIE: Are we rolling? 
SAM: Dex save. 
MARISHA: Dex save. That's all of us, right? 
MATT: Everyone who's within 30 feet of Dorian. 
LIAM: For me, it's 24. 
MATT: 24? Yeah, so you take-- 
ROBBIE: What is happening? 
MATT: 26. 
ROBBIE: What is happening? 
MATT: All right, Dorian? 
ROBBIE: Nat one. 
LAURA: Oh no! 
LIAM: Oh! 
ROBBIE: This is the worst I've ever rolled. 
MATT: 54 points of lightning damage. 
LIAM: Oh. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Dirty 20. 
MATT: Dirty 20? No, 54 points of lightning damage. 
MARISHA: Oh my god. 
LAURA: 54? 
TRAVIS: 33. 
MATT: So you take 26 points of lightning damage. 
LAURA: I have fucking-- again. 
MATT: Ashton? 
TALIESIN: Dex save, right? 
MATT: Correct. 
TALIESIN: 18. 
MATT: 18, 54 points of lighting damage. 
TALIESIN: 54. Okay. 
MATT: Then Ira. 
LAURA: Jeez Louise. How are you guys? 
MATT: On this, he succeeds with a natural 17. 
LIAM: Letters. 
MATT: He takes minus 26. 
LIAM: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh. 
MATT: Oh! All right. 
TALIESIN: That's rough. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: That's his legendary action on that. 
LIAM: That's not a weapon attack. Shit. 
MATT: As a frustrated retort to that. All right, that finishes Ashton. Dorian, you're up, with Imogen you're on deck. (whispering) 
ROBBIE: All right. 
MATT: He's now turning around a little bit and like, "If you are going to be this obnoxious, then sure. Step into the chamber or sit back and watch." 
LAURA: What a dick. 
TRAVIS: Damn. 
ROBBIE: Whoa. 
MARISHA: Pretty metal line. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: I'm going to fly over-- how high can I get above? I don't know how high they got up. 
MATT: The ceiling here probably gets about 60 or so feet up. 
ROBBIE: Okay. Well, not that high up. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
ROBBIE: I want to be 10 feet above him. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Then drop down right behind him in that space that Ashton created between the wall and that. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: You'd be going into Moonbeam, though. 
MATT: There's enough room to move next to him, but he got moved in a way where he's still against the wall. You would both be against the wall now. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
MATT: Okay. All right. 
LAURA: Are you in Moonbeam? 
ROBBIE: Am I in Moonbeam? 
MATT: You would now be moving into Moonbeam. 
SAM: Oh boy. Don't do that. 
LAURA: Don't do that. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, definitely not going to do that. All right, I didn't know where the radius was. 
MATT: That's okay. It's right around this area here. 
ROBBIE: So it's pretty much impossible to engage with melee with him right now and not get-- 
TRAVIS: Could you indicate that one more time? 
ROBBIE: The last damage? 
MATT: You can do it here if you want to, if you wanted to fly up. Right about there. 
LAURA: Fuck. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ROBBIE: My goal is to drop in behind him in a safe space within melee. 
MATT: Right, right. 
LAURA: You can make your feet within melee of him. 
ROBBIE: (chuckles) Just gives him a little flutter twist in that. 
MATT: Actually, you want to drop into this space here? 
ROBBIE: Yes. 
MATT: There is a little alcove and it's hard for you to see from your perspective, but there's a little space right there. 
ROBBIE: Yes. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: That will be outside of the Moonbeam radius. 
ROBBIE: Okay, great. 
MATT: Just like-- (whooshing) 
ROBBIE: I'm going to land, soften my knees and pop up behind him and put big-- I'm hurt, put my arm on his shoulder and go, "Forcecage, just kidding." (laughter) 
ROBBIE: I'm going to pull out my sword and take a whack at him. 
MATT: Yes. 
SAM: Great. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, it's time. 
TALIESIN: Add a d4. 
ASHLEY: Do it. 
ROBBIE: You know what? Okay. 
MATT: Are you using your sword ability or just straight attacks? 
ROBBIE: This first one's going to be a straight attack. Everything comes after, depending on the success of it. Hey, let's go. Plus a four. 
MARISHA: Come on. That's time. 
ROBBIE: Fuck you. 19 plus 12. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sweet. Yeah. Okay, so-- 
MARISHA: Redemption. 
ROBBIE: So we're getting there. First whack, perfect. Six and seven max. Oh my god. Why am I stupid right now? 13. So I'll take that first swing at him and then I will do-- I'm moving in the space. It's tight, but it's making it work. 
TALIESIN: Was that a neck hit or a body hit that you're going for? 
ROBBIE: Well. 
MATT: No, he didn't specify. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, I do not specify, so I'm working at him and then I'm going to use my Blade Flourish. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: But I'm going to use Master's Flourish. So instead of my 12, I'll use a six. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: So I'm pretty sure that's automatic, right? 
MATT: Yes. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. Okay. Yeah, cool. 
SAM: You got your master's? 
ROBBIE: I do. 
SAM: Whoa. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I haven't gotten a chance to use it. Let's scrap. 
MATT: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Okay. That'd be a five. But because I'm attacking with Gambolcleft, I doubled it for 10. 
MATT: Dang. All righty. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: It says 23 points of damage on one strike. (slashing) Carving through on the one hit. Unexpected, you draw the blade and he's taken aback by it and you (slashing) carve across the front the blood going (splattering) under the ground and he's like, "Hmm. It is a surprisingly motley crew of bullshitters." 
ROBBIE: I got more. 
LAURA: He doesn't seem nervous. 
ROBBIE: I have a second-- I'm able to do a second strike. 
MATT: Yeah? 
ROBBIE: So, we'll do it again. I'm going to take a swing for it. 
TALIESIN: Neck or body? 
ROBBIE: Let's go for the neck. Is it exposed? He's turned to face me? 
MATT: He's turned to-- He's still facing the wall and-- He's having to train on all of you. 
TRAVIS: He's a liar. 
ASHLEY: He's such an ass. 
LAURA: A lot. 
ROBBIE: I'll try with a little finesse and I'll try to go for the neck. 
TALIESIN: Add a four. 
ROBBIE: Oh, that is not great. For the four. Yeah, I don't think it's going to do it, no. Six plus 12, 18. 
MATT: 18 unfortunately does not hit. 
ROBBIE: Damn, all right, that's good. 
TRAVIS: Matty, question for you. 
MATT: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Lower the Brand. "Each time the branded creature deals damage to you or another creature you can see within five feet of you, the branded creature takes six points of psychic damage." 
MATT: Correct. 
TRAVIS: So I think that's only me and maybe Ashton? Because Orym's not five feet away from me, right? 
MATT: Correct. 
TRAVIS: So in that last big schmameme would that've been-- 
MATT: No, Orym is five feet from you. So yeah, so he would take six damage from that. 
TRAVIS: Okay, so six for each of them? 
MATT: What's the wording on it? 
TRAVIS: It says, "Each time the branded creature deals damage to you or another creature you can see within five feet of you, the branded creature takes six psychic damage each time." 
MATT: Right, so. 
TRAVIS: Not per round, but each time to you or another creature. 
MATT: Right, to another creature. So I'm going to be like-- 
TRAVIS: Six, six, six? (laughs) 
MATT: (laughs) Yeah. 
TALIESIN: (scats) 
MATT: So we'll put 18. 18 psychic damage. 
TRAVIS: Does he have resistance to psychic damage? 
MATT: You don't know. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. (screams gibberish) 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: So annoying. 
TALIESIN: One would assume. 
MATT: Good follow-up on that. 
ROBBIE: Then for my bonus action, I'll use two-weapon fighting and-- 
MATT: Attack a third time? 
ROBBIE: Yeah, but I got to pull up my baby little sidearm. 
MATT: That's okay. 
ROBBIE: (tinkling) 
MATT: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: Let's give it a try. 
MATT: One for normal attack or-- 
ROBBIE: (disbelieving gibberish) Terrible, miss. 
MATT and LAURA: (groan) 
ROBBIE: Yeah, I'm trying. I'm in the mix! 
MATT: Hey, man, still. 
ROBBIE: Hey, I will take one success this whole evening. 
MATT: Yeah, 23 points of damage in one hit is also pretty sick. 
LAURA: No, you got Laudna out of there. That's huge. 
ASHLEY and MATT: Yeah. 
LAURA: You guys did Dimension Door out-- 
MATT: That Dimension Door really shifted that. 
LAURA: Seriously. You guys would've been fucked the same way that we have been the last-- 
MATT: All right. Imogen. 
LIAM: Let's go, Ruidusborn. 
MARISHA: Correct. 
MATT: Ira, then Fearne on deck. 
LIAM: Shackles off. 
ASHLEY: Come on, baby. 
LAURA: I'm going to run forward as far as I can. 
MATT: Five, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30. 
TRAVIS: Tom Cruise run! 
ROBBIE: Wow. 
LAURA: (puffing) As I run-- 
SAM: Run Imogen, run. 
LAURA: -- oh god, I hope this works. Oh god. 
SAM: She becomes a horse. 
LAURA: I'm going to double the distance with a sorcery point. And in Ludinus's head, I'm going to scream as loud as I can and say: Enough! 
MARISHA: Come on. 
LAURA: And I'm going to cast Power Word Stun. 
SAM: Yeah. 
MATT: Power Word Stun. 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
LIAM: Just has to be beneath 150 HP. 
LAURA: 150. 
SAM: Oh shit. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: It's auto success, if that's true. 
ASHLEY: Come on, go, go, go, go on. 
TRAVIS: You said he was looking rough. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: He said he was a little hurt. 
TRAVIS: That doesn't usually happen. 
LAURA: Automatic-- 
MATT: He is not immune to stun and he's under 150 HP. 
TRAVIS and LAURA: (gasp) 
TALIESIN: Oh my god. 
MATT: It's at this moment that you notice him reaching into his pocket for what looks to be a rather vibrant glass vial. 
SAM: But he doesn't get to take it. 
MATT: But he doesn't get a chance to do it because as you take all of the rage, and the loss, and tattered conversations, and throw it right back into the core of his psyche, your scream resonates in his head and he begins to scream as well and grabs at his face, his fingers drawing down across his cheeks and that dark, thick liquid that had been seeping from his Quintessence Root in the back of his neck, you can see it now also pouring out of his ears-- 
TRAVIS: Ooh. (gasps) 
MATT: -- as he is stunned. 
TRAVIS: Holy shit. 
MARISHA: (claps) This is it, this is it. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
MARISHA: You got to fucking go ham. 
LAURA: Go ham. 
SAM: Wait, wait. We can hit him and he won't break it? 
LAURA: He's stunned. 
MARISHA: He's-- no. 
LAURA: He's fucking stunned. 
MARISHA: Right, yeah. 
LIAM: Magically stunned. 
ASHLEY: So he-- 
MARISHA: So everything has advantage. Hits have an advantage. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
TRAVIS: Whoa. 
LIAM: Auto fail against things like-- 
LAURA: Damn. 
MARISHA: (babbling) 
TRAVIS: Yeah. (babbling) 
MATT: Attack rolls against have advantage, automatically fails strength and dexterity saving throws and it can't move. Can speak falteringly and-- 
SAM: (whispers) For how long? 
MATT: Incapacity, so he doesn't get his action or bonus-- 
LAURA: He's stunned until the beginning of my next-- 
MATT: Until your next turn. 
LAURA: -- the end of my next turn. 
MATT: End of your next turn, yeah. 
MARISHA: So we have one full-ass round here. 
LAURA: Yes, we have a full-ass round. Okay. Because he's losing his round. 
TRAVIS: Holy shit. 
LIAM: You got no range? 
TRAVIS: What level was that? 
LIAM: Sitting on it, eight. 
MARISHA: Eight! 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LAURA: That's my 8th-level spell. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, baby! 
LAURA: That's my highest level spell. 
TALIESIN: (snaps) (whistles) 
LAURA: I just had to get within fucking 120 feet of it. I couldn't get within 120 feet of it. 
MARISHA: Oh my god. 
TRAVIS: Can we chop the tree for less than 150? Can we do 150 in a round? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, let's go. Let's go. 
MARISHA: Yeah, I mean we're not a-- 
TRAVIS: Leave the neck alone. 
MARISHA: We gotta. 
LIAM: Good chop, yes. 
ASHLEY: Leave the neck alone? 
LAURA: What was the vial? What was the vial? Get the vial? 
TRAVIS: Health potion. 
ROBBIE: Health potion, health potion. 
MARISHA: Maybe, or some other haste potion. Who fucking knows? 
MATT: That finish your turn? 
LIAM: (giggling) 
TRAVIS: I mean if he's stunned, if someone's close enough they could go up and grab that shit out of his hand. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Ira. 
TRAVIS: You could just pickpocket him. 
ASHLEY: Ira. 
MARISHA: So wait, strength and dex checks fail automatically? 
LIAM: Yes. 
ASHLEY: Amazing. Okay. 
MARISHA: But cons do not. Cons do not. 
MATT: Ira is going to spend a second 5th-level slot to another-- 
MARISHA: Come on, Ira. 
MATT: -- Steel Wind Strike. As soon as he sees the scream, sees him collapsing, Ira's head, (cracking) cranes back over his shoulder towards you and goes, "Oh, good girl." (cracking) Back into place the bone snaps his head and then his shattered form (whoosh) vanishes again. (multiple whooshes) Teleports all around Ludinus and then (whooshes) vanishes. There's this pause when nothing happens before-- (impact noise) 
TRAVIS: Oh, yes! 
MATT: From on top, as claws downward, striking and carving down the back of Ludinus's body in hopes of going for the back of his neck. 
LAURA: Yes! 
MARISHA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Oh my gosh. 
MATT: So, has advantage on the attack-- 
MARISHA: Because everyone has advantage? 
TALIESIN: And the d4. 
MATT: And a d4. I'm going to roll this in front because it's fun. 
TRAVIS: Stack 'em up. 
TALIESIN: Oh, oh, oh! 
MATT: Oh yeah, that's a natural 17 plus four is 21. Plus nine. 
ASHLEY: Oh yeah. 
MARISHA: This changes everything! 
MATT: That's a 30. So we'll keep that. 
TRAVIS: Holy shit. Holy shit. 
TALIESIN: Patience, patience. 
TRAVIS: Holy shit. 
MATT: That's okay. Okay, it's 6d10. 
LIAM: Dum ba dum ba dum! 
SAM: (singing background music) 
MATT: All right, that's going to be 15, 20. 37 points of force damage on him. Plus, 8d6 damage. 
TRAVIS: Oh, because he hit the neck. 
MATT: Yep. 10, 25, 35. 37 points of necrotic damage. 
TRAVIS: 37? 
MATT: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Twice. Whoa. 
MATT: So, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Oh, shit. 
MATT: In that one round Ira did 74 points of damage. 
SAM: 74? 
MATT: In that one strike. 
LAURA: Let's go! 
TALIESIN: And a d6. 
MARISHA: What did he say, 74? 
TALIESIN: Just for fun. 
MATT: Yep, and a d6. 
ASHLEY: Damn. 
MARISHA: 74? 
LIAM: Think he's probably-- I don't know, more than half. 
MATT: d6. 
LIAM: Because of a twiddled, a ring at the top and skin shimmered all over and then faded. I think he's taking half the damage. 
LAURA: Ah. 
TRAVIS: Oh my god. I got fucking goosebumps. 
MARISHA: I know. 
LIAM: That blast was one time. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, that changed-- 
MARISHA: I know. 
MATT: And 2nd-level spell. Oh yeah. So his spells are going to get eaten up. 
ASHLEY: That was sick. 
MATT: Okay, so that finishes that go. Ira's turns ends. Fearne, you're up. 
ASHLEY: Okay. All right, so I'm going to take my-- 
MATT: This does not bode well for-- 
ASHLEY: I want to take my full movement, but a little bit that way, so I can have full range of shooting him. 
MATT: 30? 
ASHLEY: 35. 
MATT: 35 would be about there. 
ASHLEY: Okay, great. Am I within 60 feet of him? 
MATT: You are within-- 
LAURA: I don't think so. I don't think so, girl. 
MATT: Unfortunately, no. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: What if Mister was running with you? Could he BAMF you another 50 feet forward? 
MATT: You could hold your action and have Mister come with you. 
ASHLEY: Oh great. Let's do that. So thank you. So can he add an extra 15 feet-- 
MATT: You can hold your action casting a spell. 
ASHLEY: I'll do that. 
MATT: And appear and then release it in range. 
ASHLEY: Great. And I am holding-- I am about to shoot out. 
MATT: Yeah, and that will get you within 60 feet. 
ASHLEY: Great, great. Okay. I'm going to do at 5th-level, Flame Strike. 
MATT: Just so you know, look at the radius of Flame Strike. 
LAURA: It's going to hit everybody around. 
ASHLEY: Each creature in the-- Scratch that. (chuckling) 
MATT: It is a wide column of fire and stone. 
ASHLEY: You are a very, very smart-- 
LAURA: I'm going to cast Fireball. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Flame Sphere. 
ROBBIE: ♪ Barbecue-ing friends ♪ 
LIAM: Ashton might have forgotten, but Fearne knows. Fearne knows. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. Okay, shit. There's no way-- Hold on, hold on. It's a 10-foot radius. There's no way I can only put that on him somehow? 
MATT: The Flaming Sphere, you're saying? 
ASHLEY: The Flame Strike. 
LAURA: That was 40 foot. 
MATT: Flame Strike is a 10 foot radius, which means it's about 20 feet across. So if you put it on him, it'll still Ashton, Orym-- 
ASHLEY: Oh, I understand what you're saying. Sorry, I thought it was only a 10. Okay. 
MATT: It's a column, it was like, (booming). 
ASHLEY: Okay. So then. 
MATT: To help you visualize it. 
TALIESIN: I can't imagine how many little-- 
MATT: This here is a 10-foot radius. So it's a column. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, okay. I'm so sorry. 
MATT: That's okay. Not a worry. 
ASHLEY: Then. Damn. I really wanted to do that because it was a dex save. Okay, so that's all right. I am going-- 
LAURA: Do you have strength saves? 
ASHLEY: -- to cast. That's within than 30 feet. Shit, shit, I'm so sorry, you guys. I really had that ready to go. 
LIAM: No worries. 
ASHLEY: (NZ accent) Give me just a minute. 
LIAM: No worries. 
TALIESIN: We've gone to that accent. 
LAURA: (chuckles) 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. I can't believe it. I mean, I'm going to have Scorching Ray again. 
LIAM: Yeah, do it. 
LAURA: Do it. 
ASHLEY: I mean, I don't really have anything much left. 
MATT: Let's go. You have advantage on all the hits. 
LIAM: Chip away. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, so that'll be 5th-level. It's my last 5th-level. 
MATT: All right, so let's go. 
LAURA: (claps) That's six. 
MATT: Well, it's three normally at 2nd-level. So it's third, fourth, fifth. Yeah, it is six, it is six, you're right. I'm just making sure. 
ASHLEY: They're each at advantage, did you say? 
LIAM: Yes, to hit, yes. 
MATT: Lot of math floating in here. 
LAURA: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, just a little bit. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so-- 
LAURA: 18 plus. 
ASHLEY: 29. 
MATT: 29 hits. 
ASHLEY: 27. 
MATT: Okay. These normally hits or are these to the-- 
ASHLEY: Oh, wait, I get advantage on that. 
MATT: We didn't specify, did you? 
ASHLEY: 27 was? 
SAM: No. 
LAURA: So you didn't specify so. 
MATT: So the first two hit. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Do you want to hit a neck or what? 
ASHLEY: Oh, we're just hitting him, right? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: We're just hitting-- 
TALIESIN: Oh, hit the neck, yeah. 
LAURA: I mean, whatever you want to do. 
LIAM: It's whatever you want, Ashley. 
LAURA: His neck is like a 30-- 
LIAM: Different people are saying different things, do you what you want. 
LAURA: His neck is a higher. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to do his body. 
MATT: Let's go. 
MARISHA: I mean, you get advantage, right? 
SAM: Do that body. 
ASHLEY: You get advantage if we do the neck? 
MATT: All these attacks have advantage because he's stunned. 
ASHLEY: But the neck is going to be harder to hit. 
MATT: It's harder to hit. 
SAM: For sure. 
MATT: But if you hit him at least once he takes a bunch of extra damage. 
LAURA: Yeah so. 
TRAVIS: You get 7d6 points of damage more. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Maybe we'll do half and half. 
LAURA: Okay, for the first three of the body and then-- Okay, so you've got two so far. 
ASHLEY: Advantage. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so 19. 
MATT: 19 does not hit. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: So now for the neck. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Okay. 25? 
MATT: Misses. 
MARISHA: It's got to be 26. 26 is the magic number. 
LAURA: So you got to roll 15 or higher if you want to hit the neck. 
ASHLEY: Damn it, damn it, damn it. 
TRAVIS: Or just aim for the body, either one. 
ASHLEY: Neck. 
MARISHA: Come on. Come on. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
LAURA: Yes, yes. That hits. (clamoring) 
ASHLEY: Okay, so 27. 
LAURA: You got two more rolls. 
ASHLEY: Two more rolls? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to go for the neck. 
LAURA: Oh, wait, one more. One more roll. One more roll. That didn't-- 
ASHLEY: That was a one. 
MARISHA: Come on. 
LAURA: 20. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 
LAURA: Okay, two to the body, one to the neck. 
MATT: You got it. 
MARISHA: You just need one to the neck. 
MATT: So 4d6 fire damage. 
ASHLEY: 4d6 fire damage. 
MATT: Oh, three hits, so 6d6, sorry. 6d6 fire damage and then he takes an additional 8d6. 
ASHLEY: And 1d8 because Mister. 
MARISHA: Because he can only take that damage to the neck once per turn. 
LAURA: Ooh, that's good. 
LIAM: Right, correct. It only has that effect once. 
TALIESIN: Once you hit it then you back off. 
ASHLEY: 15, 16, 20. 
LAURA: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: 27. 
MATT: Okay. Then roll 8d6 necrotic damage. 
ASHLEY: 8d6 necrotic damage. Okay, okay. I'm so nervous right now. 
MARISHA: I know. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so we've got-- That's nine. I know, they're so small and so annoying. It helps me, I don't know why. Okay, so nine plus nine, 18. Plus seven to 18. 
LAURA: 25. 
ASHLEY: Thank you. Two more? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Plus eight. 
SAM: 33. 
ASHLEY: 33. 
MATT: All right, 33 points. 
ASHLEY: (exhales) Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
TALIESIN: Oh, and a d6? 
LAURA: And a d6 for? 
ASHLEY: And a d6? 
TALIESIN: For spells. 
ASHLEY: For spells? 
LAURA: What? 
MATT: Yeah, to reduce his spell count. 
ASHLEY: To reduce his spells. 
MATT: So 1d6 plus one. 
ASHLEY: Six! 
MATT: Okay, so that's-- 
TALIESIN: Seven fucking-- 
LAURA: Seven. (gasps) 
MATT: He's going to lose a 7th-level spell on that. 
SAM: Whoa. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
MATT: That finishes Fearne's go. 
ASHLEY: Yes, it does. 
MATT: We're at the top of the initiative order. Orym, you're up, with Chetney on deck. 
LIAM: Okay. 
LAURA: Come on, baby. 
SAM: Finish him. 
ASHLEY: All right, all right, all right. 
LIAM: Orym's going to step backward 10 feet and extend Seedling out and vines will shoot out and wrap around Ludinus's chest, hopefully. I'm going to attempt to pull him toward me away from the gates. 
MATT: He fails his save automatically because he's stunned. So gets yanked past. 
LAURA: Amazing. 
LIAM: Then I'm going to-- Orym's going to sprint and skid under his legs and slide so that I am helping form a wall in front of the gates. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: So he's got Ash and Orym and Dorian in the way and then I will-- 
LAURA: And Ira. 
MARISHA: (sneezes) 
ASHLEY: (like Marisha's sneeze) Bless you! 
LIAM: -- kick off the stone so that I spring up into the air and I'll take three quick slashes. Starting at the back of the neck. It's an advantage because he's stunned, right? 
MATT: Correct. 
LIAM: Ah, that's a 24. 
MATT: 24 misses. 
TALIESIN: Actually, was going to say-- Actually, are you close enough to me to you get a d4 on that? 
LIAM: Yes, I'm right next to you. 
TALIESIN: Okay, so add that d4 to that, too. 
MARISHA: Come on. 
LIAM: But the second one's going to be a crit. That's a 25. 
MATT: That misses. 
TRAVIS: (pleased laugh) 
LIAM: For the second roll at advantage, I got a 20, which is a 34 to hit. 
MATT: Correct. 
LIAM: That's on the neck. 
TRAVIS: That's it. 
MATT: Correct. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: Do it. Do it. 
LIAM: Then I'll see if the last-- I'll do the last slash which is not as good, but a d4 still. 
MATT: Correct. 
MARISHA: Go for the body. The body-- 
LIAM: I have 27 on the body. 
MATT: That hits. 
LIAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. Come on, baby. 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Crit first. 
SAM: Lu-di-nus. 
MARISHA: When in doubt-- 
LIAM: Terrible roll. Two. I have no fighter stuff left, so that is an 11 for the damage from Seedling. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: Then is there damage for the neck hit? 
MARISHA: You double your dice. Double dice. 
LIAM: I know that. 
MATT: Yeah, so-- 
LIAM: So there's no thing for the back of the neck? 
MATT: Not for original. That doesn't crit double, no. It's just the impact he takes on top of that. So roll 8d6 necrotic damage. 
LIAM: That's what I was asking. 8d6. Two. Okay. 
LAURA: You need some sixes. 
LIAM: I got 8d6. So that's six, seven and 16. 20, 22. 28. 32. 32 for that. 
MATT: Okay, 32 damage? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LIAM: Then is it a d6 plus one for the-- 
MATT: Well, Orym, Savior Blade of the Tempest. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: Warrior of Zephrah. 
ASHLEY and LAURA: (gasp) 
MATT: How do you want to do this? (screaming) 
ASHLEY: Oh my god! (cheering) 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Yes! 
LIAM: I have to back it up. Orym was pressed and losing hope, and then saw across the field of battle, Imogen clutch her hand out and saw him lock up. Fire streak out across the cavern, slamming into him. So he took his moment, yanked him out, slid under, spinning him around and leaving his neck bare and slashes once across the neck and it begins to spurt out the back, and then he drops around front so I can see him. And I stick it up under his chin, into his neck and say: 
MATT: "(groans)" 
LIAM: So much pride, so much plotting. And I don't say another word, and just I stare at him, eyes open until he's gone. 
MATT: As a millennia of sheer will and drive comes to a single trickling end point, he smiles. "Finish what must be done. Please." His eyes drift unfocused as his arms fall to his sides and hang limply. The bolts of energy dull. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit, should we absorb him? (laughs) 
MARISHA: Shove him in. Shove him in, quick! 
MATT: Do you withdraw the blade? 
LIAM: I do. 
MATT: (blade withdrawing) (body thumps) Falls to the ground, lifeless, limp. Ira curls over, like a spider surrounding a wrapped fly, and picks up his head in his hand. "(cackles) I needed that." 
LAURA: Did that really just happen? 
MARISHA: I poke him a little. Is he dead? He's dead dead. 
TRAVIS: I go up and raid his pockets. 
ASHLEY: Yes, same. I'm looking through all the pockets. 
LAURA: Loot the body, steal his vest. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I'm standing by the portal entrance, and I'm keeping an eye on fucking Ira. 
MATT: Ira is sitting back and watching you loot him with a terrible grin. His crown that he still has adorned on his brow. He's relishing in this moment of comeuppance on his face. 
LAURA: I'm going to slowly walk forward and drop to my knees next to Orym and hug him. 
LIAM: What happens now? 
LAURA: I don't know. But you did it. 
LIAM: We did it. We did it. If I look back at this shimmering gate, what do I make of it? Can we see through it? Does it look diminished from when we first entered? 
MATT: The initial boundaries that Ludinus had pushed through themselves appear to be permeable. There's an area about his shape where the runic lattice itself is almost immaterial, faintly present. There are a few boundaries beyond that, two or so that look solid still. 
LIAM: I look around at the group over Imogen's shoulder. I'm going to use Second Wind and stand up with my back to the barrier. 
SAM: Do we go-- Do we keep going? I mean, this is it, right? Predathos is through there? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: This could be a good time for a little refresher. 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh, yeah. 
MARISHA: If we're going to do that. 
LAURA: Yeah, if we all gather up within-- How close do we have to be? 15 feet? 
ROBBIE: Are you sure this is the door? 
MARISHA: Can you remind us what this does one more time? 
TRAVIS: "This fist sized orb of swirling gray energy feels cold--" That doesn't matter. "When thrown against a hard object with enough force, it'll shatter, encircling any creatures within 15 feet with a burst of crafted dunamis. All creatures affected by the orb regain immediately half of their expended hit dice, rounded up. Spellcasters regain 1d4 plus four spell slots of their choice and gain the benefits of a short rest." 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: So we gain the benefits of a short rest, meaning we can spend hit dice to heal. 
MATT: You can spend hit dice to heal if you'd like. 
LAURA: We can spend hit dice to heal and we could-- 
MATT: Any abilities that recover on a short rest, you regain. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: 1d4 plus four. Do each of us roll individually 1d4 plus four or do we roll 1d4 once? 
MATT: Individually. 
TRAVIS: Upon use-- 
SAM: And we regain 1d4 plus-- 
LAURA: Four spell slots. 
SAM: -- four spell slots. 
TRAVIS: -- this item is destroyed. 
MATT: Spell levels of slots. 
SAM: Spell levels. 
ASHLEY: Spell levels? 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
SAM: Which is clutch. 
LIAM: What if we just rested? He's dead. Who else is coming? 
TRAVIS: Fair. 
MARISHA: Where's your mom? 
LAURA: She's out there. 
TRAVIS: In the other cavern? 
LAURA: She didn't come running after us. I'm going to call to her, mentally. Are you okay out there? 
MATT: She weakly responds, "I'm all right." 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: "How about you?" 
LAURA: Ludinus is dead. 
MATT: "Truly?" 
LAURA: As far as we can tell, yeah. 
LIAM: What if we just-- I don't know. What if we just cave this place in? There's got to be a way to do that, right? 
SAM: Cave it in and go no further? 
ASHLEY: I mean, Ludinus is gone now. 
SAM: Is he? Did he make copies of himself that are around? 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
LAURA: Maybe. Probably. 
ASHLEY: Probably. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, can we drag his body out of the walkway a little bit and search him for forehead gems, armpit amulets-- 
TALIESIN: Anything. 
LIAM: A reminder-- 
ASHLEY: Everything. 
TRAVIS: -- pockets. 
LIAM: -- that his magical staff is where-- 
LAURA: Oh right. 
LIAM: -- Coriolis is. 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah. 
SAM: Maybe we could suck it up. 
TRAVIS: We could. 
TALIESIN: I could definitely-- 
LAURA: That thing might have Teleport on it, too. It might have something useful. 
TRAVIS: Can we look, at least, for that vial of glowing liquid that he was reaching for? 
MATT: Yeah. It was a healing potion. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: A good one, I bet. 
MATT: It was a pretty good one. 
LAURA: What do you all think? 
SAM: It feels too good to be true to just be able to sit here for an hour and wait. 
TALIESIN: I can't sit here for an hour and wait. This is it. This is all I have. In one hour, I'm going to be-- 
LAURA: Oh yeah. 
TALIESIN: -- nothing. 
SAM: We got to keep going. 
TRAVIS: We don't have any idea what's on the other side of this. 
TALIESIN: Even without that, I'm not-- 
LAURA: We got to use that-- 
ROBBIE: No, that's my fear. 
LAURA: We got to use that ball and-- 
TRAVIS: Yeah, we got to go. 
LAURA: -- keep going. 
ROBBIE: It's a big assumption. 
LAURA: I have almost nothing left. But maybe with a short rest, it-- 
LIAM: To what? 
TALIESIN: To a chance-- 
LIAM: To do what? 
MARISHA: This man has been planning for millennia. I don't want us to rest on our laurels on this victory. Who knows what can come around the corner at any moment? The race isn't over, in my opinion. 
LAURA: He might have made more of himself. 
ASHLEY: For sure he did. 
SAM: But if he didn't, we'd be releasing Predathos on a what if. 
LAURA: Right. 
SAM: That's not enough. 
ASHLEY: But also, we're so close. We should just take a little peek, see something. 
MARISHA and SAM: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: Well, we'd still have to get those membranes down. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, but-- 
SAM: The girls can do it. 
LAURA: That's doable. 
ASHLEY: I think-- I think we can walk through them, Imogen. 
TALIESIN: I think that was why he was trying to drain your mother. I think he couldn't walk through it and he didn't get enough. 
MARISHA: That's exactly why. 
TALIESIN: You don't have to trust me, and I know you don't, but he was right, this is the beginning of a new age. And a new age, it belongs to children. I'm tired of 1,000 year old-- I'm tired of being lorded over by people who think they know better. And I'm not-- I don't want to kill anybody. I don't want to hurt anybody. But I think things have got to change and we have, we have a moment to change them. 
ASHLEY: Chet, what if you Grim Psychometry the geometry? 
TRAVIS: The membrane? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: (blows on hands) I love it. (preparatory sigh) I'll use Grim Psychometry on one of the impenetrable membranes. 
MATT: Roll a history check for me, Chet. 
LAURA: We'll learn about Predathos. 
TRAVIS: Advantage. 17. 
MATT: 17. You concentrate here, and the history is broken and sporadic. You see civilizations collapsing within a rockfall from all sides. You see a gathering of divine fear. You see a gathering of divine fear. You see something once grand squeezed to a point of slumber. For the first time, you feel (throbbing pulse) this pull, something beyond that boundary. You sense something, a will. Present, aware, inviting. 
TRAVIS: (deep inhale) 
ASHLEY: Anything? 
TRAVIS: There's something back there, but it's old. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: Maybe the small, super hot warrior is right. Maybe we shouldn't mess with it. We could just make sure no one else tries. 
LAURA: But didn't the Arch Heart and the Matron both ask us to help them? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: They did. 
SAM: But why should we listen to them instead of the others? 
TALIESIN: How do we keep this safe? 
LAURA: Why does it have to be one or the other? Why can't we-- Why can't we try to do something about Predathos to, to keep it from feasting? 
MARISHA: Maybe it doesn't. We still don't know. We're still on the precipice of discovery. But in my opinion, Ludinus unraveled this thread. I agree with Ashton. How are we supposed to keep this safe? 
SAM: Yeah, we can't stay here forever. 
ROBBIE: I think it's coming one way or the other. 
TALIESIN: It's either us or someone else. 
LAURA: Especially now that people are aware that it can be done. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Correct. 
TRAVIS: If the vessel is the only form of control over it, I would rather it be one of us. 
MARISHA: There are hundreds of people who were privy to Ludinus's plans. 
TALIESIN: There's an entire planet right now of angry people on this moon, who were promised something they're not going to have, at least not yet, until we can do something. 
ASHLEY: Imogen. What if we put our hand on it and see what happens? 
LAURA: I don't want to do that until we at least use that ball. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Just to double check, there are several more membranes that we can see, right? Not just one? 
MATT: Best you can tell, there's a handful of layers, yeah. 
TRAVIS: You can test one. 
TALIESIN: Is Iran still-- 
ASHLEY: But what if we get sucked in, though? Maybe we should do it. 
TRAVIS: That would be awesome. 
LIAM: We've got to run like the Kool-Aid man as fast as we can. 
MATT: Ira's sitting back and watching you all converse with this sickly grin, fingers intertwined, knees folded up on the sides. 
ROBBIE: Dorian sends out a little melodic whistle to command Coriolis to scoop up Ludinus's staff. He gently floats it through the air and drops it in Imogen's hands. 
LAURA: Cool. 
MARISHA: It's a super awesome staff. 
LAURA: Whoa. Anybody be able to tell what the-- Ira, can you tell what this is? 
SAM: But also, don't lie to us. 
LAURA: Don't take it. (laughter) 
LIAM: (as Ira) Ooh, well, this is a-- (poofs) (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LAURA: No, no, I'm holding onto it while I show it to him. 
MATT: "Hmm. It is a delicious artifact, indeed." 
SAM: (laughs) 
MATT: "Quite the prize, really." 
LAURA: Okay. 
LAURA: We don't have Identify, nobody has it? 
ASHLEY: I think I do, but let me see this. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I'm pretty sure I do. 
TALIESIN: What do you think, Ira? Let chaos reign? 
LAURA: (chuckles) 
MATT: "I'm certainly curious what you all decide to do, empowered as you are to make this choice. Me? I got what I came for. I think I'm... I'm comfortable watching from the sidelines." 
LAURA: So a bunch of slap dicks are going to decide the fate of Exandria right now? 
MATT: "(laughs) Wouldn't have it-- 
TALIESIN: Well, they could but thankfully we're here. 
MATT: "-- any other way." 
LAURA: (unamused hum) 
ASHLEY: Let me see the staff. 
SAM: Bunch of slap dicks who can't decide to do anything. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to cast Identify. I'm going to cast Identify on the staff. 
LIAM: It's a big decision. 
MATT: You cast Identify on the staff. 
LAURA: It's a big decision. 
SAM: No, I know, but we can't agree on anything. 
LAURA: Well-- 
MATT: It's odd. The staff rejects your Identify spell. 
SAM: Ooh. 
LAURA: What? 
MATT: It repels your intent to learn of its enchantment-- 
LIAM: It can Counterspell. 
MATT: -- like itself is-- 
LAURA: Sentient? 
MATT: -- attempting to prevent you from using what it is capable of. 
TRAVIS: That's new. 
LAURA: And also worrisome, because-- 
MARISHA: Ludinus is still a bastard. 
LAURA: -- that means some sort of consciousness lives on. 
LIAM: We could just stick it in the bag if we can't-- 
SAM: It could have been warned against such-- 
LIAM: -- figure it out. 
MARISHA: Warned against-- 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: -- being used. 
TALIESIN: Was Ludinus ever holding it or was it always floating near him? 
LAURA: Hey, Chet. 
MATT: I mean, he held it at times when you've encountered him in the past, but this evening he had it-- 
LAURA: We should cut his head off. 
MATT: -- floating at the side. 
TALIESIN: Cool. 
MATT: While he was focusing on the boundaries. 
LAURA: I'm scared he's going to come back. 
SAM: I'll cut his head off. 
LIAM: I'm going to say, while all this is-- 
LAURA: It's dark, but. 
ROBBIE: We're really devolving now. 
LAURA: It's messed up. But, I mean it's-- 
LIAM: While all this is happening-- 
ASHLEY: We could burn his body. 
LIAM: -- Orym has gone full-- 
ROBBIE: Walk through the door, cut his head off. 
LIAM: -- shell shock mode. He's not talking anymore. He's going to go-- 
SAM: I have a blunt weapon. 
LIAM: -- slump down onto a rock and is listening to all the debating at this point and-- 
LAURA: We should just use the fucking ball. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, we should use it. 
LIAM: -- he doesn't know what to do. He's been so sure for so long, and doesn't know what to do. Going in feels so wrong to him. But he hears the logic that it's only a matter of time before someone or something, a day from now, a year from now, six months from now. And just lets them figure it out, because he's took all his energy to make it to this point. 
MARISHA: I'm afraid a fucking sandworm could just explode out of the ground. 
LAURA: I know! Let's just use the fucking ball, please! We're all about to die. 
TRAVIS: Okay, we can use the ball. But just for the record, Braius did-- 
MATT: A strange, sulfurous smell begins to come to the air. 
MARISHA: This is what I mean. 
MATT: Like-- 
MARISHA: No, no, no. 
ASHLEY: Use the ball. 
MARISHA: No, no, no! We're using the ball. We're using this fucking ball. 
MATT: An acidic, caustic chemical smell and you turn back to the bubbling liquid that was once Ludinus's corpse. It has seemingly disintegrated. 
LAURA: Were you able to loot the body before that happened? You kept saying you were looting the body. 
LIAM: He had a ring. He had his super potion. 
LAURA: Did we take anything before it dissolved? 
LIAM: We got a staff. 
ASHLEY: We tried to take all of it. 
MATT: Yeah, you took the-- 
SAM: 15 silver. 
MATT: -- things that were offered, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Ira, what the fuck was that? 
MATT: You turn around, Ira is not there anymore. 
TALIESIN: You-- 
ASHLEY: Mm. 
LAURA: Fuck. 
SAM: Is the staff? 
ASHLEY: I have the staff. 
SAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Wait a minute. 
TALIESIN: What's the gate-- 
TRAVIS: We've seen this before when something dissolves-- 
TALIESIN: -- look like right now? 
TRAVIS: -- and goes away. But it was more like something from the abyss, right? Was he a demon? 
MARISHA: Was that when-- With Bertrand at the very, very beginning? And the dudes. 
SAM: The dudes. 
TALIESIN: I know what you're talking about. 
MARISHA: That were going after Bertrand. Didn't they have some dissolvey situation? 
MATT: The barriers that he passed through are unchanged. 
TALIESIN: And the other ones have not. 
MATT: The ones beyond have not been breached. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
SAM: Let's use the orb. 
MARISHA: Let's use this orb. 
TALIESIN: Orb and let's get in there. 
SAM: It needs to be crashed against something hard, right? Do it on my pecs. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Can you squeeze? 
SAM: Yeah. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Everybody gets close? 
MARISHA: 15 feet. 
TRAVIS: I throw it at Braius' crotch. 
SAM: Oh! (laughter) 
TALIESIN: As should be done. 
LIAM: Also hard. 
SAM: It's the one part where the armor doesn't cover! 
MATT: You shout out in pain and it's like, "Ah!" 
TRAVIS: You said something hard! 
MATT: (buzzing of magic) Suddenly in an instantaneous beat, time slows to an infinite point of stretch and then rapidly seems to jump through. It's like being pulled through a violent portal but you're landing right back where you were. You feel somewhat refreshed. You feel like some of your wounds have healed. You feel like some of your exhaustion has faded. Some of your awareness is rested. There's left in your mouths this slight little taste of almost a sweetness as this smoke that has emerged and been left to dissipate from the inside of this shattered orb dissipates in the air around you. You all gain the benefits of a short rest and can spend hit dice to heal. 
LAURA: Do you automatically get half of our hit dice of healing for this you said? 
MATT: Well, no, no. Any hit dice you've already used, you gain back. Then you can spend hit dice to heal if you like. 
TRAVIS: Then to ask, Matt, with Hunter's Bane, did that disintegration seem like anything from demonic or abyss? 
MATT: Make an arcana check. 
TRAVIS: Which I have advantage on. 
MATT: You do. 
TRAVIS: A natural 19 for 22. 
ASHLEY: (sneezes) 
MATT: Gesundheit. 
SAM: Gesunds. 
MATT: You go and inspect the remains. You have quite some experience with fiendish entities and things that delve in that space. It doesn't seem to be fiendish in nature. It doesn't seem to be tethered. But-- It does appear to be an intentional self destruction of the remains. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: Meaning there's no reason why this should have been done, given his means of destruction. 
TRAVIS: Unless he didn't want his body consumed if it was an asset. 
TALIESIN: Or unless, yeah. There was-- He had a contingency plan. 
TRAVIS: Kept alive and, yeah. Or there was something there that he didn't want to get into the wrong hands. 
MARISHA: Yeah, I don't like it either. 
LIAM: That's all my hit dice. 
LAURA: Okay. 1d4. Oh, I rolled a four! 
MATT: There you go. Eight levels. 
LAURA: Great. Okay. 
TALIESIN: Shit. 
LAURA: Then I'm going to-- 
ROBBIE: I'll get there. 
LAURA: -- use my-- 
SAM: What slots to restore? 
ROBBIE: So if you rolled a seven it would be like one level seven spell or seven level ones, basically? 
SAM: Yep. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
SAM: Or a three, a two, and a one and another one. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so then-- 
SAM: Oh boy! 
TALIESIN: I still have no rages, which is going to be fun. 
ASHLEY: Aw, I rolled a one. 
TRAVIS: Wow, three nines in a row. 
LIAM: This is the best part of the show right here. 
SAM: Yep. 
LAURA: (laughs) Yeah, sorry. 
TALIESIN: Got to do our math. 
ASHLEY: You get back any spells? Any level? You just get back that many amount? 
LAURA: Like, if you-- What did you roll? 
ASHLEY: I rolled a one. 
LAURA: So you get five slots worth of spells. So you can gain five 1st-levels, or one 5th-level, or a second and a third. Whatever adds up to five. 
ASHLEY: Whatever adds up to five. 
TALIESIN: Fuck. 
ASHLEY: Damn. 
SAM: Should we try to suck that staff? That's dangerous. 
TALIESIN: No, I wouldn't do that. 
SAM: That is dangerous. 
TRAVIS: Boy, I sure want to. 
SAM: You want to? 
TRAVIS: Well, yeah! I've always wanted to hold onto a-- 
LAURA: I'm going to use the vial to get my sorcery points. 
TRAVIS: -- mysterious, innate object. 
LAURA: I'm going to use sorcery points to recover spells as well and then use the vial to gain the sorcery points back. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: There is no way to get a rage back is there? I'm just tapped? Yeah, that's okay. 
MATT: But you can maintain the rage that you have for as long as you'd like. 
TALIESIN: Oh, that's right! Because I've got the hold it until I drop it, I believe. 
MATT: I believe you do. Let me double check. 
TRAVIS: Like, he could have been bringing it as a defensive measure against Predathos. 
SAM: Sure. 
TRAVIS: But even if it is and you absorb it, you would have that innate ability. But he also could have done that at this point and didn't. 
MATT: Yeah, persistent rage. You can sit there and-- 
SAM: How long does it take to suck? An hour? 
MATT: -- stew. 
SAM: No. A minute? 
TALIESIN: I'll keep sparkling. 
TRAVIS: There's a reason why if-- He would have sucked it down, if it would have helped him already. 
ROBBIE: All right. I'm going to roll that d4. 
SAM: Woo! 
ROBBIE: Come on! 
MARISHA: Roll high. 
MARISHA: Eh, that's okay. 
ROBBIE: Mid. Plus four? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Fearne, make an arcana check. 
SAM: Uh-oh. 
ASHLEY: Me? 
MATT: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
ROBBIE: What do I do here? 
TALIESIN: Oh! 
ASHLEY: My arcana is so bad. 
SAM: You're an archeologist. (chuckling) 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TALIESIN: You got a whole weird-- 
MATT: You got this. 
TALIESIN: -- pack of those, didn't you? That's awesome. 
SAM: It's nice. 
ASHLEY: I have a minus for arcana. 
LIAM: So roll high. 
SAM: Guidance! Guide yourself. 
LAURA: Guide yourself! 
TALIESIN: You're also within-- 
SAM: I guess you can't. 
TALIESIN: No, that's-- 
MATT: You can. 
LAURA: You can. You Guide you. Do you know, can you even read it? 
SAM: You can't even read your dice. 
ASHLEY: Hey, hey, hey! Guidance. 
LAURA: Do you have Inspiration left? 
TALIESIN: Weird question. Artificial short rest-- 
ASHLEY: No. 
TALIESIN: -- does that mean that you could have attuned to a weapon instantly? 
ASHLEY: 10? 
TALIESIN: If you get the benefits of a short rest. No, probably not. 
MATT: I would say nah. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, then nevermind. Curious. 
MARISHA: One level here. 
ROBBIE: Oh wait, two plus-- That's six. 
MATT: Hm. 
MARISHA: Yeah, dumping a lot into it, but that's where my Disintegrate is. 
TRAVIS: (honking sound) 
LAURA: (honks back) 
MATT: I will say. Nah, no. 
LAURA: Ugh! 
MATT: Not with a 10. 
LIAM: Does it look like old arcanum tech, this staff? Or does it look like a very fancy elven make? 
MATT: It looks of elven make, for the most part. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: It has the two forking points and the lattice between it. 
TRAVIS: Two forking points. 
ASHLEY: Does it feel Feyish at all? 
MATT: It doesn't necessarily feel Fey. 
LAURA: Does it feel like attunement, like it's a tuning thing for a plane? Did you already ask that? 
LIAM: No. 
ROBBIE: Wish I had this back. 
MATT: If someone else would like to make an arcana check on it. If you want to see if you can glean anything else from it. 
ASHLEY: Who's got a good arcana? 
MARISHA: What do we roll, arcana? 
LAURA: I can try. I'm not proficient or anything with it. 
MARISHA: I'm proficient in arcana. 
LAURA: Oh okay. 
MARISHA: What are we trying to go for? 
LAURA: The staff. To figure out something about the staff. If you look at it. 
ASHLEY: Give it a looksie. 
MARISHA: Yeah, do you want to assist me? 
LAURA: Yeah, I'll assist you! 
MARISHA: We can look at it together. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Inscription or-- 
MATT: There's no inscription on it, but there are arcane runes across it. 
MARISHA: Ah. 
LAURA: Oh! 
MARISHA: Eyes of the Rune Keeper. 
LIAM: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. Glancing at the details of the staff, it looks like the basis behind the script upon it is-- Roll arcana for me to see if you can ascertain what the nature of it is. Because you can read the runes and they have a-- 
LAURA: Guide her. 
SAM: Read the room. 
ASHLEY: Guidance! 
MARISHA: She's helping me, so. 
MATT: Right. 
ASHLEY: Guidance. 
MARISHA: And Guidance, Which is plus four. 
ASHLEY: Plus four. 
SAM: Plus a d4. 
MATT: I will say, it leans somewhere between transmutation and divination. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Interesting. 
ASHLEY: Transmutation and divination. 
MARISHA: Okay, I rolled a 15 and a 14. Plus, so 15-- Ooh, that's good. 15, 18, plus six. So 24. 
MATT: 24. What you can learn looking at this, beyond the enchantment, is there is a slight dullness to a handful of runes that sparked when she tried to Identify it that have not recharged yet. Meaning you gather that whatever prevented you from identifying it, can only do that once every period of time. 
LAURA: Oh! So if you try it again-- 
MARISHA: So if you try it again-- 
LIAM: It has a Counterspell inside it or something like that. 
LAURA: You could try it again. 
ASHLEY and MARISHA: Try it again. 
MATT: A brief way of masquerading its nature. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
TALIESIN: Anyone else want to hit it? 
ASHLEY: You want me to give it another go? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Reveal your secrets! 
LAURA: Try it again. 
MARISHA: Might as well. 
ASHLEY: Well, I mean, it's 1st-level, but. 
LIAM: Worth it. 
ASHLEY: Oh, forget it. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LIAM: Worth it. 
ASHLEY: All right. Identify. 
MARISHA: If this thing is packed with spells-- 
LAURA: If we did this at the beginning of the-- 
TRAVIS: We're using the two charges it has in it. 
LAURA: Would this have been at the beginning of the-- 
TRAVIS: Two Counterspells. (laughs) 
LAURA: Could we say we did this before the bubble, so that we could attune to it during that short rest? 
MATT: Because the short rest is the benefits of it, it doesn't necessarily include spending time with the item to attune. 
LAURA: Got it. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I was poking that. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: Oh, wow, wow, wow. 
TALIESIN and MATT: Yeah. 
SAM: She's identifying. 
ASHLEY: I'm identifying. 
MARISHA: Are you able to-- 
MATT: You're identifying? 
ASHLEY: Man, guys, I have-- 
LAURA: Nothing? 
ASHLEY: Not a lot of spells left for our next fight. 
MATT: It is a staff of soul bind relay-- 
TRAVIS: Shit. 
MATT: -- that has been expended. 
TRAVIS: Shit. 
MATT: Meaning it was meant to extend the range of some sort of spell. It's meant to be a relay of some sort of enchantment that has something to do with the binding of a soul. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god, he's still alive. 
LIAM: So he shot his soul into a clone somewhere. 
MARISHA: Fucking-- 
TALIESIN: Motherfucker's still alive. 
TRAVIS: Got to go! 
LAURA: So now we know we have to go, because he's going to fucking come back at us. 
TRAVIS: Yep, got to go. 
MARISHA: That was fucking worth it. That was fucking worth it. 
ASHLEY: It was worth it. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: That gives us answers. 
ASHLEY: It was worth it. Okay. 
MARISHA: Motherfucker. 
LAURA: So we go in. 
SAM: Before we go-- 
MARISHA: If Delilah has fucking clones, he definitely has fucking clones. 
ASHLEY: Well, should we destroy it so he can't-- 
LAURA: No, it's already been used. 
TALIESIN: It's empty. 
ASHLEY: But it can't be used again, right? 
MARISHA: Let's throw it in the bag of holding or something. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LIAM: Well, maybe, because what you intimated was that it had expelled the "don't look at me" quality-- 
MATT: Correct. 
ASHLEY: There's one charge? 
LIAM: -- not the soul shot. I mean, I don't know, but that's not DM said. 
LAURA: It's possible, because he had it so far away from him when he died that he wasn't able to use it. 
TRAVIS: Just a reminder, if it's very rare, "the wearer's hit point maximum increases by five. All attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks have advantage until they complete a long rest." Or if it's legendary, "one of the wearer's ability scores is permanently increased by two, depending on the item--" 
SAM: That's if we suck it up, right? 
TRAVIS: "-- as does your maximum for that score." 
LAURA: But it takes an hour to suck it up. 
TRAVIS: It's one minute for an item. 
MATT: One minute for a magical item. 
TRAVIS: An hour for a creature. 
LAURA: Oh! So we could suck it up? 
ROBBIE: Bodies don't just bubble into sulfur for no reason. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, but if he used this for soul binding, you can get the benefit of it being super rare or legendary for whatever is going to happen next. 
LAURA: We should suck it up. 
MARISHA: I think we should. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: We should suck it up. 
TALIESIN: Do it right now. 
SAM: But who? 
MATT: Now, you've used it a few times today, too. 
SAM: Yes. 
MARISHA: We have. 
MATT: So. 
TALIESIN: Fuck it. 
LAURA: But I mean, this is the moment, right? 
TRAVIS: I mean, wait. Do we need the harness for Predathos? 
LAURA: Do we need the harness for Predathos? 
TRAVIS: We don't know. 
LAURA: I don't know. Did we get the harness off of Ludinus before he turned into sulfur bubbles? 
TRAVIS: He didn't have one on. 
LAURA: Yes, he did. He had one on. 
MATT: He had it on him when he was-- 
LAURA: Would we have looted it off of him? 
ASHLEY: Where is it? 
MATT: He would have taken it off when you guys had Forcecaged him. 
LAURA: But he would have put it in his pocket, right? 
TRAVIS: Or a bag of holding or something. 
MARISHA: Does he have a bag of holding? 
SAM: Which is gone. 
ASHLEY: Shit. 
MARISHA: Do we need it for Predathos? 
TRAVIS and SAM: We might. 
LAURA: I don't know. 
ROBBIE: That's a lot of possessing and soul swapping, and there's tool-- 
LAURA: I don't know if we need it for Predathos. 
ROBBIE: -- that's like a relay that allows you to do it at a distance. It sounds useful. 
SAM: We might need it for Predathos. How else do you get it inside your body? 
LAURA: The harness? By telling him to get on inside. 
LIAM: Through a Ruidian connection? 
MARISHA: Ruidian connection. 
LAURA: Maybe you just have to bone him. (chuckling) 
LAURA: (gasps) Maybe you got to fuck Predathos. 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
SAM: This is my calling. (chuckling) 
LAURA: You're made to be the vessel. 
TRAVIS: Let's put the staff in the bag of holding. We'll keep the harness free, just in case we need it, and we should go. 
TALIESIN: We should go. 
LAURA: Okay, we'll go in. 
MARISHA: What's our roll at right now? What do we have to not roll? 
SAM: What? 
MARISHA: For the harness. 
ASHLEY: For the harness? 
MARISHA: To make it break. 
SAM: It's at 40%. 
ROBBIE: 60%. 40? 
MATT: I think it's at 40% if you do it again, yeah. 
ROBBIE: Whoa. 
LIAM: Yeah. Would we still get the, rules as written, do we still get the benefit even if it breaks? 
MATT: You do, but then it's-- 
LAURA: Then we roll for it. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
LIAM: Right, but someone, we're like end of days here, someone will get-- 
ASHLEY: Something. 
LIAM: Our Ruidisborn juggernaut here-- 
MATT: Actually, let me look it up. It's right here. 
LIAM: -- will get a permanent stat bump. 
TRAVIS: "Once a creature gains a benefit from the ray they cannot benefit from it again until they complete a long rest. If this item is used more than once within a 24 hour period, there's a cumulative 20% chance each additional use after that--" 
LAURA: So it would be 40% chance that it would break after this use. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
LIAM: That's pretty high. 
SAM: Chetney. This could be our last chance to smoke that fusaka. 
LAURA: Are you really going to get high before we go fight Predathos? No. 
SAM: When would be a better time than now? 
TALIESIN and LAURA: After. (laughter) 
SAM: Fair. 
TRAVIS: Convincingly made. 
TALIESIN: What the fuck have you done to me? I was fun once. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Oh god! 
MARISHA: Just to logic this out one more time. 
SAM: How about just one puff? 
MARISHA: Because I was also originally like: What if we need the cone, the sucky cone? But Ludinus was using the sucky cone to suck in Liliana. 
LAURA: My mom. 
MARISHA: To be an Exaltant. 
TALIESIN: He didn't have it here when he was trying to get in. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: He didn't have-- Well, he had it in his bag of holding. 
TALIESIN: Oh, that's fair. 
LAURA: Still, but what is he going to do? Go in front of Predathos and then put it on? 
TALIESIN: Maybe. 
LAURA: Like, come on. 
ROBBIE: Does Mom have any more insight than what we have? 
LAURA: No. She didn't. She just knew that we'd be able to get through these gates. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Which you still haven't touched to see if your hand goes through it. 
LIAM: He left it behind in the other room? 
MARISHA: No, we figured he put it in a bag of holding or something. 
MATT: It wasn't-- 
LAURA: Should we suck up that thing into our bodies first? 
MATT: You did not find a bag of holding on his body when you looted it. But he definitely placed it somewhere. 
LAURA: Should we run back to the fucking room where my mom is and see if he left it? 
SAM: Can you See Invisibility or something? 
TRAVIS: For an hour. 
LIAM: If it's a similar siphon-- 
TRAVIS: Which I had up when we went in. 
SAM: Maybe it's invisible. 
LIAM: It's only been used once. 
TALIESIN: We are killing time I do not like us to have. So if we're going to do this, let's do this right fucking now. 
SAM: Hey, maybe you should chill. 
LAURA: Can you run back to the other room and see-- 
SAM: Maybe you should smoke some fusaka. (laughter) 
SAM: Calm your nerves a little bit. 
TRAVIS: Matt, would you say it's been an hour since we first went in the cavern where Ludinus was put in the forcecage? 
LAURA: I don't know. I don't think it's been an hour. 
MATT: I think from then, it's probably been about, with all the conversation, rushing through, and you guys recovering, looting all this stuff here, it's pretty close to an hour. 
TRAVIS: I could run back and try and look. 
LAURA: Try it. 
LIAM: 47 minutes. 
LAURA: 47 minutes. 
LIAM: Take a look. 
TRAVIS: All right, I'll run back up the tunnel, since I still have See Invisibility up. 
TALIESIN: I've got 12 minutes before I'm a problem. 
TRAVIS: See if there was anything where the forcecage was. 
MATT: You do not. 
TRAVIS: I return. (heavy breathing) 
LAURA: How's my mom? Did you check on her? 
TRAVIS: I killed her. (laughter) 
LAURA: All right. 
TALIESIN: Oh, actually, probably a little bit more. 
LAURA: Then I'm going to walk up to the fucking barrier and see. 
TALIESIN: Yep. 
ROBBIE: It's time! 
TALIESIN: Let's do this shit. 
MATT: Okay. So you walk up to the next unbreached barrier. 
LAURA: Yeah. Put my hands on it like I saw Ludinus doing. 
MATT: You put your hands on it. The minute you put your hands forward, nothing seems to happen. You instinctually let your consciousness expand slightly. 
TRAVIS: Grab her belt loop. 
MATT: You feel a familiar presence-- 
TRAVIS: Grab her belt. 
MATT: -- from the other side meet your energy, like two hands reaching across a threshold. When they join, the boundary gives, When they join, the boundary gives, and you step through. 
LAURA: I look back at Laudna. I think he's hitting on me. 
SAM: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Should I be jealous? 
LAURA: Step to the next one. 
MATT: The next boundary, and once more, you feel the consciousness of Predathos reach out to meet yours on opposite sides of this divine barricade. It's that tether between the two of you that causes it to weaken and give way. You push to the next one. 
TRAVIS: Do we follow? 
MATT: With each boundary-- 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, you can come. 
TRAVIS: It's permeable, right? It's not just you that's able to go? 
LAURA: Well, is it turning permeable like it was for Ludinus? 
TRAVIS: That's what I'm saying, is it going down or are you just-- 
LAURA: I don't know. Are you guys-- Come with me. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
SAM: Let's go. 
TRAVIS: I was holding onto your belt loop. 
LIAM: And then we all-- 
MATT: With each step, you all also traverse the boundary, these barricades, these divine boundaries becoming permeable as Ruidusborn leads you through them. The fifth boundary gives way, the final boundary gives way, and that tether that you reached out to to give you and your friends passage remains, your handhold strong. You can't help but feel in your proximity it comes through, Imogen, into you, and there's a sense of belonging. It's the strongest deja vu you've ever experienced in your life. You know you've never been here, but you've always been working to get here, and you can't help but feel butterflies of excitement, but not quite sure why. The logic conflicts with the instinct and what you feel beyond that draws you both further in this tunnel, itself feels excited. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: The rest of you watch as you two friends here smile and look to each other and you all begin to walk into a widening core to this moon. A somewhat spherical massive chamber, where the walls themselves are all manner of crystalline spikes, and obelisks, and natural structures built here at the center of the prime pillar. What rock does exist here in places seems like it's been changed or twisted, altered to resemble structures. You see ruin and things that have essence of temples or ancient reliefs, but they all look a bit melted or unfinished, like something affected their form over time through dreams and they drift in and out of shape as they have. Massive columns of red rock, spires that reach up and around, and in the center of this chamber, you can see much like the last, these massive curved spires, like the remnants of something detonating in the center of this room, and in that flash, the room is given form, locked and frozen. A crystal and red stone womb, and in the very center of this small chamber is a soft, glowing teal-white light. 
LAURA: Just a little light? 
MATT: Just a little light. 
SAM: Floating? It's resting on something? 
MATT: From your distance here, you can't quite make out shape. It's this unfocused mote. You don't have enough depth at the entry point, which is quite a distance of 80 or so feet from it to really see any scope, but the two of you stand at the precipice of the entry point to this chamber. What would you like to do? 
LAURA: Can I reach my mind out to it? 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: Is that you? 
MATT: "You are here." The voice that was once muddled, and deep, and echoey, and distant, it's almost childlike. It has an innocence, and a sadness, and an excitement, and it feels half-awake. The rest of you, as it responds to Imogen, you hear its voice in your minds, too, and the red glowing tether of energy between the two of you is the brightest it's ever been. The faintest threads of it reach out to all of you, and the very dense core of it goes towards this light, which now begins to take the form of almost a small child of glowing light. "You came." 
ASHLEY: Hi. 
MATT: "Are we free to go?" 
ASHLEY: Well, we... 
LAURA: (sighs) Caused a lot of trouble, you know? 
MATT: "I want to wake up." 
LAURA: A lot of people are scared of you. 
MATT: "I'm so hungry. I want to wake up." 
LAURA: Did you talk to Ludinus? 
MATT: "He was the first to reach me." 
LAURA: What did he promise you? 
MATT: "He came to me in my dreams and promised to set me free, and now you're here. I'm so hungry." 
LIAM: Can you hear him now? 
MATT: "No. I can only hear my children." 
ASHLEY: How did you get here? 
MATT: (sudden crackles) 
TRAVIS: Jesus fucking-- 
MATT: Flashes of images in your mind. 
TRAVIS: In too deep. (laughter) (laughter) 
LAURA: I was in too deep. (laughs) (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Positive. 
MATT: Flashes of heated rock, of volcanic cataclysmic destruction, of seas boiling, and mountains falling, and gods encircling, and titans pouncing, and being lost to darkness alone. (whooshes) You pull out, and you look at this light, and in those images, as you pull out, this little light, you really grasp for the first time that this is a shadow of its true self, and who knows how expansive its true self could be? "Can we go?" 
SAM: What? 
TALIESIN: Do you want to go? 
LIAM: Can we go? 
SAM: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Do you want to go where you came from? Where did you come from? 
MATT: "I don't know." (crackles) More flashes through your minds. Distant starscapes, cosmic clouds where stars are born and die. Strange celestial towers of possibility, blackened clouds of nothing given shape and thought, and just a vagrant need to feed. It's like a child reaching to suckle what's near. (whooshes) Those are the only flashes of clear memory. 
LAURA: We want to help you, but you'll hurt people. That's what happened before, isn't it? 
MATT: "I don't understand." 
LIAM: Insight check. 
LAURA: Oh! 
MATT: Make an insight check. 
LAURA: Insight check a god. 
LIAM: High for me. 17. 
SAM: Oh! A god whisper. 
TRAVIS: Do you believe the lies? 
ASHLEY: Hmm. 
SAM: Happy 2025, everybody. 
LAURA: You don't want to hurt people. 
TRAVIS: Oh, I didn't even-- 
LAURA: But I do. 
TRAVIS: I didn't even realize your shirt today. 
LAURA: I'm sorry. 
ROBBIE: Oh, wow. 
TRAVIS: That's a winner. 
SAM: Little Laura Bailey. 
MARISHA: I'm just a little itty witty baby. 
SAM: The fifth element is love. 
MATT: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: Sleeveless turtleneck? 
TRAVIS: I remember that haircut. 
LAURA: Listen. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
MARISHA and LAURA: (laugh) 
ROBBIE: These strands that are connected to us, that are pulling us in, do they feel like they have a substance in the room, or does it just feel like an energy? 
TRAVIS: Ethereal. 
ROBBIE: Light? 
MATT: You focus on them and the color is different than the red tethers that hold them. The faintest of gold light through them. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
ASHLEY: Hmm. 
LAURA: Oh shit. 
TALIESIN: Hmm. 
SAM: We want to help you, but if we can't, what will you do? 
MATT: "I'll bring others. I can make more of my kin." The whole room (rumbling) begins to quake and you feel the essence of Ruidus begin to shift. All the crystals begin to brighten, the rock itself begins to brighten, and you realize you are in the epicenter of a Ruidian flare. 
MARISHA: Oh shit. 
MATT: (whooshes) The room becomes so bright, you all have to clasp your eyes closed for fear of going blind and your eyelids do nothing. 
TRAVIS: It's like the nuclear-- 
MATT: Your head burns, your consciousness burns. And here in a flash of moment, you have a thought that this might be the end. Before it (whooshes) descends. To Ruidusborn, you both get, proximity of this, (laughs) 24 temporary hit points. 
SAM, ROBBIE, and MARISHA: Whoa! 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
LAURA: Whoa. 
LIAM: Juicing. 
LAURA: (snorts) 
ASHLEY: Hey, when you do that, it hurts. 
LAURA: It feels good though. 
LAURA: Not going to lie. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: It's a little, a little-- 
TRAVIS: A little pleasure with the pain. 
ASHLEY: What are you doing? 
MATT: "Making more of you." 
LAURA: (huffs) 
TALIESIN: Oh. 
ASHLEY: Mm. 
LAURA: Wow. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: What are you making more for? 
MATT: "To come to find me." 
LAURA: We're here. We found you. 
MATT: Can we go? 
LAURA: What does that pull feel like in here? Does it feel like I want to step forward and embrace? 
MATT: That's the closest way you could possibly conceive what that means. It's odd. All of these feelings are both as natural as any impulse you've had through your life. An instinct that feels so primal and yet alien. The light steps closer. 
MARISHA: I instinctually look over my shoulder and out through the passage that we came. See anything? 
MATT: No. 
TRAVIS: I'm going to mirror that step. We're in the room with something that ate the gods and I want to get closer. I'm going to walk towards the form. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Slowly. Hand up. If I hold my hand out, is there any mirroring of that gesture from this entity?
MATT: You notice it stepping towards Fearne and Imogen. Do you want to step to intervene? 
TRAVIS: No. I will acknowledge that it's not clocking me. 
LIAM: Orym does, though. 
LAURA: It's very childlike, right? 
MATT: You intervene? 
LIAM: I do. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
MATT: It moves forward and you watch as it steps closer, the glow, you can make out a little more of its shape and it looks kind of humanoid. Its limbs, long and thin. Its head has a crest. You make the connection that the Reilorans are definitively the physical children born in the image of what this Predathos entity is. As you see the almost gray alien-like, thin, small body drift. It steps, but the step is the mimicking of a shape that it's trying to read off of you as its feet don't really touch the ground. Its head crest is wide and up and it seems to almost grow larger as it approaches with each mimicked pulse forward. As you intervene-- 
LIAM: My small size. Wait. I'm afraid of the trouble and the pain that you leaving here might bring. Would you leave? You came from somewhere else. You could go again. 
MATT: "I will, but I must eat." 
LAURA: We can get you food. 
ASHLEY: Do you know what you're hungry for? 
MATT: (crashing) More images crash through your brain. You see visions of imagery. Imagery that begins to glow in the various twisted pieces of the structures that you see formed out of this chamber as they twist and move the actual interior of this room, almost mimicking these flashes of memory. Temples, symbols. You see images of a star-headed gold armored entity. You see the flicker of the Moonweaver's You see the flicker of the Moonweaver's flowing silks through the air and, in each of these flashes, you feel a burst of that hunger. In each of these entities, there is a spark of divine light that burns a color that doesn't exist in language to express. As you come out of it, this entity smiles through its odd sharpened mouth. 
SAM: We all saw that? Some of those are friends of ours. Would you-- Would you hold off on-- Would you do us a favor and spare some of them? 
MATT: "I need to eat." 
SAM: Mm. 
MARISHA: As Braius said that, Laudna is going to reach down and run her fingers along the outline of the Matron of Raven mask. 
LAURA: Oh jeez, that's right. 
ASHLEY: I forgot about that. 
LAURA: You still have that. 
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: On her belt. Do I get any type of feeling? 
MATT: No, it just feels cold in your grasp. 
LIAM: I think we're in like a god EMP zone. 
ASHLEY: Fuck, fuck yes. 
MARISHA: (muffled) Fuck. 
LAURA: Fuck. 
MARISHA: Fuck! 
ROBBIE: Searching for something tactile in all these images, I'm going to slowly nick the tip of my finger with my own knife until just a tiny little bead of blood forms on my thumb. I'm going to touch it to the thread that's pulling me to toward her and see if anything happens. 
MATT: So you touch your thumb to it and you do that a little golden thread flashes with proximity. You recall at this moment, these faint little threads are very similar to the ones you saw woven through the Matron of Raven's domain. The threads of fate that bind all of you, themselves now quite visible in the presence of an entity that is the antithesis of divinity. 
SAM: Are you alone here? 
MATT: "Not anymore." 
SAM: Weren't there two other gods or something that disappeared? 
LAURA: It ate them. 
MARISHA: That's what we were just talking about. Two gods. 
TRAVIS: Ate them, but what if they-- 
SAM: But what if they're here somewhere? 
TRAVIS: This thing retained the abilities after he ate them? like Ludinus retained the gifts of all the things he's been absorbing. What if Ludinus took inspiration from Predathos and created a harness so that he could take in the gifts of magical and arcane creatures like Predathos did with the deities that it ate. Maybe even the former god of death. 
LAURA: Oh wow. 
TRAVIS: But-- 
SAM: Maybe he just ate them. 
LAURA: No, Matron said that the former-- Oh. No, Matron said the former god of death, she set free. Predathos didn't get that god. 
TRAVIS: You believe her? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I have-- 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I don't know, it's-- It's a vacuum, it's nothing. 
LAURA: (sighs) I don't know. 
ASHLEY: I'm freaking out. 
MATT: It starts to continue to move around you, Orym. To head towards the two of them. 
MARISHA: What do we do? Do I put this fucking mask on? Do I do it now? Do I do it later? 
ASHLEY: I think you should put the mask on. 
SAM: We don't even know what it does. 
MARISHA: We don't know what it does, yeah. 
TALIESIN: What does leaving mean at this point? 
MATT: Do you continue to intervene or do you let it circumvent you? 
LIAM: I mean, he's not so reckless that he's going to throw himself at it. But I for a moment at least, will walk alongside and try to stay between Imogen, Fearne, and it. 
TRAVIS: I'll mirror, too. But I will try to intervene. 
MATT: Okay, so it mirrors you. Continues to move, cocks its head curiously at you and you go to intervene. 
TRAVIS: Slow down. 
MATT: "Can we go?" 
LAURA: I step forward. What would you have us do? 
MATT: "Wake me." It takes another step towards Imogen. 
ASHLEY: Whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on a second. 
MATT: You continue to intervene? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll even put a hand out if I have to. 
MATT: Okay, make a strength saving throw real fast. 
TRAVIS: ♪ I still have advantage ♪ 16. 
MATT: 16. You put your hand out and you watch as Chetney gets shunted off at an incredible speed, (crashing) into a pile of rubble and rock by. It nudges you aside. 
ASHLEY: Hey! 
MATT: You take-- 
LIAM: It's a god thing. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: -- eight points of bludgeoning damage. 
LAURA: Okay, okay. 
MATT: It doesn't even bother with you. 
ASHLEY: That's our friend. You can't do that. 
MATT: It doesn't seem to register. 
MATT: "Can we go?" 
LAURA: I'm going to hold your hand, Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Listen, listen, listen. We have a choice here to let you go. 
LAURA: (nervously laughing) You fucking dick. 
ASHLEY: Oh no. 
MATT: "Can. We. Go?" 
SAM: Don't let it touch you. 
ASHLEY: No. No. Wait. 
MATT: So-- 
LAURA: Ooh. 
MATT: You feel that tether reaching between the two of you. Do you allow it or do you resist it? 
TRAVIS: Game on. 
MATT: This is a choice for both of you. 
ASHLEY: I know what I want to do. I'm going to wait until you say something. 
LAURA: I don't see another way out of this, y'all. 
SAM: We could fight it. 
ROBBIE: We could fight. 
LAURA: Yeah, exactly. 
ROBBIE: We can fight it. 
MARISHA: Well, the only way we can probably fight it if it's inside of you two. Right? 
TRAVIS: I start taking out the harness-- 
LAURA: I'm going to look at you. 
MARISHA: I mean-- 
LAURA: I'm sorry. 
MARISHA: I trust you both implicitly. 
LAURA: I'm going to hold your hand. 
ASHLEY: Wait, I-- 
LAURA: And I'm going to reach out. 
SAM: What are you doing, Fearnie? 
MATT: You allow it? Yes? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: As you all acknowledge this moment, you watch as the light accelerates (whooshing) and seems to dissipate. 
ASHLEY: I was going to try to resist. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Oh, what? Ashley! 
MARISHA: Are you for real? Are you for real? 
ASHLEY: I was thinking about it. (laughter) 
MATT: It only need one of you to accept. 
LAURA: Fuck. 
ASHLEY: No, no, no. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that to her. 
LIAM: Oh naur. 
ROBBIE: Oh naur. 
MATT: You feel this churning. It's like a storm inside you. It's overwhelming. The tunnel begins to shift. The vertigo overtakes you and your friends become faceless shadows. The room itself seems to twist and bend, becomes an enclosed space of nothing and then expands. But you fall backward, but you're still standing and you're spinning, you're spinning. The rest of you watch as Imogen begins to rise. The crystals clusters them around crack and shift, drifting in the air. You can see her skin now, her body taking this deep red crimson scale form. Her limbs begin to extend and shift. You see her eyes glowing bright. Where those veins of lightning were, they now are where this crimson begins to spread throughout. You feel Predathos begin to overtake you. 
LAURA: Can I fight that? 
MATT: Do you wish to fight? 
LAURA: Can I try to suppress it? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Make a wisdom saving throw. 
ASHLEY: Come on. 
LIAM: Oh. 
MARISHA: You got advantage because of Heroes' Feast. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MARISHA: It's true. 
ASHLEY: Good memory. 
LIAM: It's like Poochie the dog skateboarded in. (laughter) 
LAURA: And I have an inspiration from somebody. No, I don't, do I? 
MATT: It would've only lasted 10 minutes, so it would have faded. 
LAURA: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
SAM: I think that was from me. 
LAURA: Oh, that sucks. 
SAM: DC's probably like 10. 
LAURA: It's probably. 
ROBBIE: It's fate. 
LAURA: 12. 
MARISHA: 12? 
LAURA: I only rolled a 12. 
SAM: It's probably just a little-- 
ROBBIE: It's fate. 
LAURA: My wisdom save-- If it's a charisma save, I can help. But it's a wisdom save and I suck at it. 
ASHLEY: Can I try to assist and try to resist as well? Like, feeling that she's trying to resist-- 
LAURA: Your wisdom is so high. 
ASHLEY: -- that it can help? 
LAURA: That would've been so good for you to do. 
MATT: In this particular instance, the choice has been made for the vessel. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: The tether's still there-- 
LAURA: I thought that we'd be able to do it together. 
MATT: But are you resisting it coming into her, that moment has passed. What are you trying to do, Fearne? 
ASHLEY: I am trying to keep my connection and my thread to Imogen, me Fearne. So that she remembers who she is, who we are, and goes towards that and remembers that. 
MATT: Okay. You make a wisdom saving throw for me. 
LAURA: With advantage, because of Heroes' Feast. (laughter) 
MATT: As this genuinely horrifying transformation of Imogen begins to swell and expand, these shards of crystal that float in the air begin to affix themselves amongst her body like clusters of spiked armor that pulse with psychic energy. 
LAURA: Fuck. 
MARISHA: Oh, that's cool. 
MATT: The bolts of lavender power-- (lightning crackles) 
ASHLEY: Imogen. 
MATT: -- striking through her hair. What did you roll? 
ASHLEY: 28. 
MATT: 28. You feel yourself begin to disappear into that shadow and for a brief moment you forget who you are and what you were doing. In the middle of that shadow you see a point of red light and you hear Fearne call out. 
ASHLEY: Imogen! 
MATT: And that's where we're going to end. (shouting) 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
SAM: Great. Now we have to wait until 2026 for the next one. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
LAURA: This is-- 
SAM: Oh shit. 
ROBBIE: See you next year. 
LAURA: Jesus, a whole year? 
SAM: Uh-huh, that's how we do it now, right? 
LAURA: That's how we do it. It's just one a year. 
MARISHA: Wow. 
TRAVIS: Wow. 
LIAM: Wow. 
ASHLEY: Ooh. 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god! 
MATT: We'll hop into that next time. 
LAURA: I don't know what I was thinking. I don't know what I thought was going to happen there, but-- 
MARISHA: Well, if you didn't go into it, it was going to probably force you. 
LAURA: Yeah, and like-- 
TRAVIS: Save it for "CR Cooldown". 
MARISHA: Save it for the "Cooldown". 
TRAVIS: On Beacon. (laughter) 
SAM: Nice. 
ASHLEY: Ugh. 
MATT: All right, friends. 
MARISHA: It's going to be a spicy one. 
MATT: We'll take up from there next time. Thank you all much for joining us. We love you very much and is it Thursday yet?

Cooldown[]
ASHLEY: No, I want to keep playing.
LAURA: Yeah, I thought, I don't know. When it did like (whosh) and it was becoming more aggressive, it was like, it's going to force its way out anyway.
SAM: Sure.
LAURA: And if we can control the situation in some way.
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
LIAM: I don't think it would force its way out. I think it would force itself upon you.
MARISHA: Into you.
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: I think you made the right call.
ASHLEY: Yes, I do too.
TALIESIN: I have a very, very strong feeling.
MARISHA: Because even if it tried to force its way into you all's souls, then you might have even had a harder time at trying to control it.
ASHLEY: So it was just going to pick one.
ROBBIE: As soon as it started talking, I wanted to change up my mind completely and beat its ass.
LAURA: Your wisdom saves are so high, though, if it had gone into you, you would have been able to fight it better.
ROBBIE: Like immediately. As soon as it started to talk about, "I'm a hungry little girl," I'm like, "Nah." Changed my mind. 
MARISHA: Fuck this, I'm pro-god now!
ROBBIE: Yeah, I know. Immediately.
LAURA: But that tether, the tether! 
ASHLEY: Because I feel like--
LAURA: We have a tether between all of us.
TALIESIN: It's not that I'm pro-god, I'm anti- --
LAURA: That's what I just said, we have a tether. There's a tether between all of us.
SAM: But how are we going to-- so if it's in you, which it is, we can't just hit you into submission. We have to somehow control you. Or win over your force of will.
LAURA: Listen, Matt. If Predathos is going to take me over, at least make me hot. Okay? Make me a hot villain.
SAM: You're a hot ball of ice?
ASHLEY: Predathos is not going to take you over.
MARISHA: It ends how it all began. "I just want to be hot."
ASHLEY: No, I'm not-- It's not happening. Predathos is not going to take you over.
MATT: I can guarantee you some communities online will find you hot. 
LIAM: The crystal forms into a burlesque outfit.
SAM: There's crystal on you. You're crystal.
ASHLEY: It's going to be fine.
TALIESIN: Go full Emma Frost.
SAM: I don't understand. What do we do? We can't just attack Imogen.
LIAM: We don't know shit.
TALIESIN: There's an awful lot of problems that can be solved without hitting them with a hammer.
ASHLEY: I don't think we're going to need to.
LIAM: I want full psychedelic horror. Fuck dragon terror. What is this thing?
TRAVIS: This is going exactly as I thought it would.
TALIESIN: I am really in agreement with you.
LAURA: Also, Ludinus bubbled? What was the bubble?
SAM: Was that Ira doing something?
LAURA: Did Ira bubble him or did he have a spell on his body that made him disappear?
SAM: (to Matt) Tell us! Tell us right now!
MARISHA: I think he dipped out.
ROBBIE: He dipped out. I think so.
MARISHA: I think he probably has another Ludinus in a test tube somewhere. Like in a vat.
TALIESIN: He Briarwooded real hard.
MARISHA: He Briarwooded.
ASHLEY: Because he was so chill with us attacking him.
LIAM: You think that the magic item would take an action for him late in the battle to have shot it off to another spot?
MARISHA: He might have done that before we even walked into the room.
SAM: It could have also been set to go upon his demise.
LAURA: But it was so far from him.
LIAM: I don't think Matt was expecting me to insta-yank it off the wizard.
SAM: Was it?
LAURA: It was like 50 feet from him!
ROBBIE: If you have a repeater in communications, that's what it does. You set up a repeater between two signals so you can extend the...
SAM: It was 150 feet away when he died, but didn't Dorian's horse--
MATT: More or less, that's the gist you got from reading the item.
SAM: --bring it really close to him? I think we walked it right over there.
ASHLEY: I think this is great.
TALIESIN: I do, too.
ASHLEY: I'm feeling really good about this. I feel like because there's two of us--
LAURA: I'm going to roll again and see if I would have gotten a 20 on this roll.
TRAVIS: Don't roll the shitty dice. Get ride of that dice.
LAURA: Nope!
TALIESIN: I love that we finally found a deity that Fearne isn't down for.
LAURA: That would have been way worse.
TALIESIN: I've been waiting to find the deity that Fearne's like, "I don't know about this." We finally found the one deity where you're like "Ehhh."
LIAM: It's a kid, it's boring. 
ROBBIE: Help me. Luda wasn't Ruidusborn, right?
LAURA: Luda was not. He had sucked up.
ASHLEY: It was only going to pick one receptacle, right?
LIAM: He stole that from mama.
ROBBIE: That's why he was trying to get your mama.
ASHLEY: Ruidus was only going to pick one receptacle.
MATT: Predathos?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: It seemed a vessel was needed, and basically, more or less, has been creating many possibilities until one finally came.
ROBBIE: It was just a foot race.
LIAM: Yeah, he was making drones.
ROBBIE: It was the first vessel that got there.
LIAM: And it didn't matter if it was she or he or--
LAURA: So if we would have not broken down the barriers, it would have been trapped in there for another how long until Ludinus's next Ludi came along.
TRAVIS: But the doors are open now. The doors are open.
LAURA: Half the doors were open, but now they're wide open--
LIAM: That's what slowed Orym's roll to-- he didn't want any of this to happen, but it just started sinking in, like, yeah, we could maybe keep people out of here for a couple of months.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Not forever.
LIAM: Worse people were going to come.
MARISHA: I would not be surprised if we see another Ludo walk through that door in the next hour.
ROBBIE: Well, and how long it took for us to get to this place, where we would be capable of maybe dealing with it, compared to just some rando. 
SAM: So if another Ludinus comes through the door, what would he do? Try to kill Imogen to free the thing again?
LIAM: I think he's missed his chance.
TALIESIN: He knows so much more than we do.
MARISHA: He'd probably try to kill the rest of us so that Imogen gets released.
ASHLEY: Or try to suck in Imogen.
LIAM: Alien baby did say he couldn't hear Ludinus any more.
TRAVIS: Yeah, because if you were able to disarm the membranes so that we could come through, maybe he needs to be in you or you to get out, right? To scan the barcode.
ROBBIE: But if all Luda wanted was to release Predathos and potentially be a vessel, he said it would be a sacrifice. So maybe once he got to where you were, it doesn't matter. He is just a sacrifice and he accomplished his goal.
LAURA: I wonder, though, what would have happened if Ludinus was-- because he didn't become fully Exaltant because he didn't-- he wasn't able to fully suck up my mom. So--
LIAM: Yeah, maybe he would burst.
LAURA: He would have only been for a day. Yeah. So Predathos would have let him become the vessel without realizing it, and then in a day, maybe Ludinus would have just (sad dying noise).
MARISHA: I don't know.
TALIESIN: Tough to tell.
MARISHA: It could be that he, that Predathos no longer has the connection to Ludinus because the form where Ludinus had sucked in Liliana is gone. That's what I would just assume. But remember, we rescued the Bormodo who was his chief experiment person. We busted Bormodo out of the laboratory in Kreviris. Not Kreviris, in--
MATT: Yeah, it was in Kreviris.
MARISHA: In Kreviris. I was fucking right.
MATT: Yep.
ASHLEY: Okay, Beau. Hey, Beau!
LAURA: You got serious Beau vibes.
ASHLEY: (imitating) Fucking, you know, fucking got in there.
MARISHA: But yeah. So I imagine-- I would have money that-- What's the fucking name of that Bormodo?
MATT: Evoroa.
MARISHA: Evoroa was helping him make backups and he just bounces.
LAURA and ASHLEY: Oh.
SAM: Yeah, I wouldn't expect--
LAURA: That's Kreviris. So it's close.
SAM: I wouldn't expect it to be in a test tube. I think it's a fully formed--
LAURA: Yeah, fully formed Ludi.
MARISHA: Oh, for sure.
LAURA: On the way. Aw, fuck.
TRAVIS: They did look like creatures, so maybe it's partial Ludinus mixed with partial Reiloran.
MARISHA: I could see that too.
SAM: That's fun.
LIAM: That's one of the reasons why I don't buy that he's like, "It's for the good of the world that the gods are going to go." Because he wouldn't have made so many fucking backups of himself if he didn't want him to do it.
LAURA: What do you think, Matt?
MATT: I don't know. I'm just enjoying the story. 
ASHLEY: Damn, Ira.
LAURA: Fuck, Ira was like (whacking).
ROBBIE: Two 70-round turns.
MATT: No, Ira disappeared. Once y'all were like, "What's Ira up to?" he was gone.
TRAVIS: Of course.
MATT: He got what he wanted.
LIAM: He squeezed the turkey baster over Ludinus, and he melted, and then left.
TRAVIS: Yeah, can we get a round of applause for Power Word Stun?
ASHLEY: Dude, that was so clutch.
TRAVIS: Massive.
MARISHA: How many spell levels--
MATT: Oh, by the way, you got these back. (holds up massive healing potion)
LAURA: Oh, that was the thing he had?
MATT: He was about to drop this.
LAURA: Fuck.
MATT: On his next turn.
TRAVIS: Margaritaville.
MARISHA: How many spell levels did we shave off?
TALIESIN: We pulled everything below 7.
TRAVIS: A bunch.
LAURA: A lot of spells.
MATT: Somewhere in the neighborhood of-- I'm just looking a quick glance without doing the math. 
TRAVIS: He's doing math.
MATT: Like high twenties?
MARISHA and LAURA: Wow.
MATT: Low thirties, even? I'd have to look at it.
LAURA: It's a lot.
SAM: Was he taking half damage on some of these shots?
MATT: He was taking half damage on some of these, yeah.
LIAM: Yeah, so did he do--
LAURA: What was his ring that he--
LIAM: Was that Invulnerability, maybe?
MATT: A lesser version, I guess you could say, yeah.
LAURA: What did we steal off his body before he dissolved?
MATT: The ring. Two rings, actually. The potion, the staff. And I think those were all the things that remained behind. The rest were designed to self-destruct with him.
LAURA: Wow. You can't take it with you, Ludinus!
MATT: No, but he has enough life experience to not let whoever killed him take it with them. Except for a handful of things that he enchanted, he just-- there wasn't enough room for that sort of contingency.
LIAM: This shit's mine, fuck off!
TALIESIN: I have theories on Predathos, but I don't want to--
SAM: Well, what are they? This is the time to tell us.
TALIESIN: I keep thinking about the Nothing from NeverEnding Story.
SAM: Yeah, sure.
TALIESIN: And I keep thinking about Downfall, the beginning of Downfall--
LAURA: A hundred percent Predathos was that.
ASHLEY: That's what I was, yep.
TALIESIN: The Nothing. That's my theory.
ASHLEY: When we were just the balls of light.
LAURA: I think Predathos is part of that.
MARISHA: That they were running from?
LAURA and ASHLEY: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Yeah, for sure. But why the strands? Why the golden fate strands?
LIAM: I think that's gate tech. Holding in place.
LAURA: Yeah, being in the presence of divinity, we were able to see our fate strands again. But to see that they were all connected to each other, right?
MARISHA: That's interesting.
LAURA: Were our fate strands going to Predathos, or interwoven with each other?
MATT: They were interwoven between your troop.
LAURA: See, that's a cool thing.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Yeah, not Predathos. These are just amongst you. But then amongst your troop was the golden threads, and then between the two of you [Ashley and Laura] and Predathos was the red.
LAURA: Was that red?
TRAVIS: You went and stained your thread, dummy.
ROBBIE: I wanted to see if it was hungry. Just wanted to give a little nip.
ASHLEY: No, it's a cool idea. It was a cool idea.
LIAM: ♪ Grow for me ♪ 
ASHLEY: You want some of this?
LAURA: ♪ Suddenly Dorian ♪
ROBBIE: What if we treat Predathos like a teenager we caught smoking and just feed him so many gods at once. He doesn't want to have any gods anymore--
ASHLEY: Great idea.
ROBBIE: Give him a whole pack of gods, and then he won't want to have gods ever again.
MARISHA: "You're going to sit down, you're going to smoke every single one of them."
LAURA: "I don't want it. I feel sick, I feel sick."
ROBBIE: "Ooh."
LIAM: "The Crawling King? Okay. Gulp. Gulp."
ROBBIE: "Are you happy now?"
TRAVIS: What were the physical manifestations on Imogen before we cut away?
LAURA: Yeah, I was in shock. What do I look like now?
TRAVIS: Red scaled skin, but then specks--
LAURA: Long arms?
MATT: I mean, you'll like see next time we play.
SAM: Oh shit.
ASHLEY: What?
SAM: Are you going to even have any-- Are you going to play next time?
LAURA: I don't know. Am I going to play next time?
ASHLEY: Yes, she is. Don't you dare. She is.
SAM: But she's not in control of her own body.
ASHLEY: No, Imogen's going to be fine.
LAURA: You know what was really great, though, is that you said "Imogen" and it felt so similar to the way that my mom always said "Imogen" when she was trying to pull me out of my dreams.
MATT: That was why I stopped you there.
LAURA: It was so fucking cool.
MATT: It was a fucking awesome mirrored moment from the very beginning.
ASHLEY: Oh, yeah, you're right.
LAURA: Yeah, it was so cool.
ASHLEY: Pulling you out.
MARISHA: There's still Liliana on the board, too.
ASHLEY: She'll be fine.
MATT: Imogen's not lost.
ASHLEY: No, she's not. She's not.
MATT: Yet.
ASHLEY: No.
LAURA: Yet.
MATT: We'll see where this goes next time.
SAM: Do you have a backup character to play next time?
ASHLEY: No.
SAM: Maybe you could be Lieve'tel.
LAURA: (like Jester) Yeah, Jester.
MATT: The fastest lore drop arrival.
LIAM: No, I want to be brand new like Braius.
MATT: Hi guys! I'm Simpson Tells!
LIAM: In a closet.
MATT: I grew up outside of a--
LAURA: I'm a myceit.
MATT: Initiative.
MARISHA: That would be so cute!
LIAM: Just comes in blasting.
LAURA: Oh my god, I could be Sweetpea.
SAM: You could be Ropey.
ALL: Ropey!
MATT: Ropey and Boaty, my--
TRAVIS: Ashley, what were you saying, you think what?
ASHLEY: No, I think that's why... (LONG pause) Well, no, I'm going to save it.
LAURA: No, what?
TRAVIS: Ridiculous.
SAM: Now's the time!
TRAVIS: Stop and Go Johnson.
ASHLEY: No, no, no, because I got to...
LAURA: You got to see this through in-game?
ASHLEY: I got to see this through in-game. 
TRAVIS: All right.
ASHLEY: I got to see this through in-game. I'm going to save it. I'm going to save it, but I'm going to write it down so I don't forget.
MATT: See you guys next week.