List of Transcripts

Contents

1 Pre-Show
2 Part I
3 Break
4 Part II
5 Cooldown


Pre-Show[]
MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. (garbled yelling) Thank you for joining us on what is likely to be the conclusion of our third campaign. 
TRAVIS: What? 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
MATT: But before we come into this episode, we do have some announcements to get through this evening. 
LAURA: Why? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: ♪ I'm coming in ♪ 
MATT: Beginning with the first, tonight's sponsor, our dear friends at Hit Point Press. Sam. 
SAM: A new year means new RPGs and accessories from Hit Point Press. Let's hold them up, everyone. From "Humblewood," "Fool's Gold," "Big Bads," "The Fablemaker's Deck of Many Things," miniatures, bigatures, puzzles, and trading card frames, hitpointpress.com has got your gaming sorted. Matt, I got to say, as we come into this episode, this is a bittersweet sponsorship because it might be the last one of Campaign Three. There's so many other ideas for ad bits that I didn't get to do. Some were too raunchy or too weird, or Marisha just said no to them, flat out. 
MARISHA: It's kind of true. 
SAM: But Hit Point Press is so cool that they said as long as I plug their awesome products, I could finally do all the stuff I wanted to do in my ad bits, but never got the chance. So sit back-- 
MATT: Uh-oh. 
SAM: -- and enjoy a special list of my rejected ad ideas in song. Hit it! 
MATT: No, no, no, no. [slamming] [slamming] 
SAM: ♪ This campaign's gone on for far too long ♪ ♪ So for this ad, ♪ I made a special song ♪ ♪ To show you everything ♪ that I never got to do ♪ ♪ To show you everything ♪ that I never got to do ♪ ♪ (lively music) ♪ Come on! ♪ I never got to skydive ♪ with my bestie ♪ ♪ I never got to shave ♪ Taliesin's testes ♪ ♪ I never sang "Little Mermaid" ♪ 'cause Disney Corp would sue ♪ ♪ I dreamed of boxing ♪ Marisha in the ring ♪ ♪ And scaring Travis ♪ with the girl from "The Ring" ♪ ♪ But these are the things ♪ that I never got to do ♪ ♪ I wanted to ♪ shoot a film noir ♪ ♪ I wanted to ♪ rob a railroad car ♪ ♪ I wanted to shower ♪ in cake and hot coffee ♪ ♪ And now, thanks ♪ to tonight's sponsor, ♪ ♪ I get to do ♪ all of this and more ♪ ♪ But first let me read ♪ their product copy ♪ Be sure to check out the amazing slate of-- It's still going on, Marisha. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
SAM: Be sure to check out the amazing slate of new products from Hit Point Press. And for those who love "Humblewood," the long-awaited "Humblewood 2: Beyond the Canopy" is coming soon to Kickstarter with new playable races, a new Gadgeteer class, and much more. Use your code HEYCR to get 10% off the order at hitpointpress.com. Now back to the song for the big finale. ♪ Now to close with the thing ♪ that I want best ♪ ♪ And it doesn't even violate ♪ our TOS ♪ ♪ I finally get to ♪ show off my nipples ♪ ♪ My nipples ♪ ♪ My nipples ♪ ♪ My nipples ♪ ♪ I'm a cat ♪ (sighs) Glad I got that... off my chest. 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
TALIESIN: No. 
ASHLEY: That was a bop. 
LAURA: No. 
SAM: (laughs) Matt, for the last time in Campaign Three, back to you. 
ASHLEY: Oh no. 
MARISHA: Oh! 
TRAVIS: Good gravy. 
ASHLEY: Don't make me cry. 
MATT: Not holding back the tears, I'm just glad that's over. (laughter) 
MATT: Marisha, you got some announcements. 
MARISHA: In case you missed it, we dropped some major updates in our latest State of the Role last week, including what's to come after Campaign Three. There will be life after Campaign Three, starting with Brennan Lee Mulligan! 
TRAVIS and SAM: (exclaim in surprise) 
MARISHA: I know, back in the DM seat as we dive into a well-known but unexplored age of Exandrian history with ExU Divergence. 
TRAVIS: Divergence. 
MARISHA: Premiering February 13th, it's going to be great. Matt's playing in this one! 
MATT: I'm a player. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Kill everybody, Matt, come on! 
MATT: Yeah, I will. 
MARISHA: But yeah, and then, of course, next week, there will be no new episode of Critical Role, but you can catch Matt in the Fireside Chat chair over on Beacon to talk about all things Campaign Three. Join the Beacon Discord to submit any of your questions. We will be having a big campaign wrap-up, but we're going to do it after Divergence so we can talk about the whole kit and caboodle. 
LAURA and ASHLEY: (breathy grunt) 
MATT: Laura, you're up. 
TRAVIS and ASHLEY: (laugh) 
LAURA: I have this! ♪ Dee duh duh duh duh duh ♪ (cheering) 
LAURA: It's upside down. Whitestone is for lovers. 
ASHLEY: Oh, come on. 
MATT: That's cute. 
LAURA: Artist Ricardo Bessa, thank you so much. It's available now in the US, Canada, UK, and EU. (tongue waggling) And! 
ASHLEY: I got to see this. 
LAURA: Wait, hold on, my purse is in the way. Okay, this box, you guys. 
LIAM: It's big. 
LAURA: WizKids-- 
ASHLEY: I'm trying to help. 
LAURA: -- is celebrating Critical Role's 10-year anniversary. Oh wait, I'm not supposed to hold this up yet. With some really exciting new products. (laughter) 
LAURA: A collection of Taste of Exandria Food Charms, featuring delectables from all over Exandria, and, now I can, a life-sized figure of Baby Trinket. 
TRAVIS: Look at those! 
LIAM: Let him out! 
TALIESIN: Show us the bear! 
LAURA: I'm going to pull him out. 
ASHLEY: He looks so cute. 
LIAM: Let him out of the Pokébox. 
LAURA: This figure is made out of-- 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
LAURA: Look at him! He's stuck to the cardboard still. 
ASHLEY: Oh, sir. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god, the eyes. 
LAURA: He's made out of soft foam and he's hand painted, to show off every claw, tuft of fur, and piece of armor. Isn't he the cutest little baby you've ever seen? They're both available for pre-order right now at your friendly local game store or at wizkids.com. 
SAM: It's the perfect size to like punt. 
LAURA: Look. He's a baby! 
TRAVIS: Samuel! 
ASHLEY: You probably could. 
LAURA: Don't! He's very light, he's actually very light weight. 
ASHLEY: Could be kind of fun. 
TALIESIN: Don't encourage him. 
LAURA: Should we just keep him up here? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
SAM: Probably. 
MATT: Sure. 
LAURA: I'm going to get him off this cardboard. 
ASHLEY: We could make like a game. Okay, we don't need anything else. 
SAM: Like rugby. 
ASHLEY: Like rugby with Trinket. 
ROBBIE: Aw! 
MATT: It's super cute. However. 
LIAM: Hey, buddy. 
LAURA: No. 
ASHLEY: No, no, no, but just wait. 
MATT: I believe this concludes our announcements. 
TALIESIN: No. 
LIAM: More announcements. 
MATT: So let's go ahead and jump into tonight's episode of-- (grunting and whining) 
MATT: -- Critical Role. 
♪ Critical ♪♪ Critical ♪♪ It's Thursday ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ One-by-one, we climb until we reach the top. ♪♪ Two-by-two, we fall. ♪ 
LAURA: ♪ Will we meet our end or meet our destiny? ♪♪ Hold your breath and roll! ♪ 
MATT: How do you want to do this? 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ Who knows what will happen? ♪♪ He might! ♪♪ But one thing's for sure, ♪♪ We never give up on the fight! ♪ 
LIAM: ♪ From the healer ♪♪ To the renegade ♪ 
MATT: ♪ We all share the same goal ♪
MATT and TALIESIN: ♪ Adding more allies ♪♪ Taking more chances ♪ 
SAM: ♪ Hold your breath and roll ♪ 
MARISHA: You can certainly try. 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ It's Thursday night. ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ From darkness, our friendship will rise ♪♪ But one thing's for sure: ♪♪ We never give up on the fight ♪♪ Oh, get ready, ♪♪ Get ready, ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪
(flames whooshing) 

Part I[]
MATT: And welcome back. So last we left off, through the chaos of Bells Hells, Vox Machina, and Mighty Nein, and many other heroes that rise up to try and halt the unbridled emergence of the God-eater. Bells Hells finally is delivered to the core of the moon Ruidus, where they battle with Predathos itself which now, upon its defeat, remains dormant temporarily within its vessel, Imogen Temult. After passing beyond the boundaries that kept it locked away for an untold amount of history, you begin to step to your trek back towards Exandria. Tense interactions with some of the holy armies that marched upon the moon to stop what you are doing at all costs without maybe understanding the intent behind it. You eventually are given passage to Vasselheim itself in the moments of a dimmed sky, which we will return to momentarily. For back within the core of Ruidus amongst the scattered subterranean tunnels, a wayward troop of adventurers responsible for defeating the Weave Mind and dealing with those who remained to surrender within and around the Arx Creonum, the Mighty Nein, shoulder to shoulder with the battered but still surviving Gaz Tomo and other members of the Volition suddenly received a message to Mr. Caleb here, Mr. Caleb Widogast. Bell Hells asking for their aid, some way to free themselves from Ruidus to get back, to get out from where they were, though not enough to actually find or gather where they might currently reside. As such, hours have passed since in search. There we find them scattered amongst the dark underground. The smell of fungus and a distant, sad echo to each word spoken of a relatively silent world. 
LIAM: (Caleb) So a few hours later then, knowing vaguely where they went but not knowing the lay of the land, we have been trying to spiral our way down? 
MATT: I imagine so. 
LIAM: Yeah, okay. 
LAURA: (Jester) I just think it's really rude to send a message and say you need help and then not give any kind of follow-up. 
SAM: (Veth) You're saying that they're bad at sending messages? 
LAURA: Yeah, they're really shit at it. 
SAM: Yeah, they-- 
LIAM: They may have other strengths that make up for their lack of performance skills. 
MARISHA: (Beau) Maybe they're dead. 
LAURA: (gasp) Oh my gosh, what if they asked us to get us out and you didn't show up, Caleb, and then they all died? 
LIAM: This is on me. 
MARISHA: I'm just saying. 
LAURA: It is all your fault. 
TRAVIS: (Fjord) Most things are. Caducy, is there anything you can do about this smell? 
TALIESIN: (Caduceus) Oh, I hadn't noticed. 
ASHLEY: (Yasha) I don't mind it, actually. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: No. 
ASHLEY: Could we, the fungus smell, are there any of these we can eat? 
TALIESIN: I don't think this is fungus. I'm not sure, I've never seen it before in my life. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Honestly, I couldn't even tell you what the smell was. That's-- (sighs) 
SAM: I could do some quick chemical analysis of it. See what it is. 
TALIESIN: Why are you just rubbing your fingers? That's really gross. 
SAM: I had a lot of coffee. 
TRAVIS: No, not in your mouth. (laughter) 
MATT: If you would like to make a nature check for me? 
SAM: I'll lick things. 
MATT: Sure. 
SAM: First roll of the last episode! 
TRAVIS: That's how they discovered penicillin. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
SAM: I can't read what that is. 
ASHLEY: That's really good. 
SAM: Oh, it's a 17! 
ASHLEY: (mockingly) Oh, you can't read it? 
SAM: No, it's just-- Oh. 
ASHLEY: I'm just kidding. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Dish it out. 
ASHLEY: (sarcastic) Oh no! 
MATT: Yeah! Fair play. (laughter) 
SAM: Dirty 20. 
MATT: Dirty 20, okay. It definitely has a fungusy, mildew flavor to it but it has contrasting textures. As you bring it up to taste this weird material, this faint purple, spongy material, it pulls away and there is a yellowish-green contrasting texture to it that has a very sweet decay flavor to it. As you pull back, you see the material of this fungus-- 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: -- it's shifting, almost like something is growing within the dark color and sharing, occupying the vacuous space between. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
SAM: This is alive. This thing is alive. 
TALIESIN: I'm really glad that we didn't try and interrupt it then. It clearly is, I don't know, it's going through something. Maybe it's pregnant. Maybe this is some sort of-- 
ASHLEY: Pregnant? 
LAURA: I didn't know-- 
MARISHA: Pregnant. 
LAURA: -- mushrooms could get pregnant. 
TALIESIN: We are somewhere beyond our wildest dreams. Who knows how any of this works? 
ASHLEY: What do they taste like? 
TALIESIN: This is amazing. 
TRAVIS: I'll take care of it. (smash) (laughter) 
MARISHA: Maybe Fjord has a point. Do we need to do a little stompy-stompy around this action? Is this bad? 
LIAM: How much of there is it around us? 
MATT: Now that you let your lights expand, you can see the actual fungus in this cavern permeates the majority of the surrounding surfaces, the walls and the ceiling around you. There is rock, but as the light passes by, the rock seems to be coated. You can see now as it passes through, it's almost like two separate trees have grown together with two different textures. 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
MATT: It's not until the light hits it that the color variations seem to have their own pattern, and you faintly can see movement, like they're still tethering-- 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: -- they're still shifting. 
LAURA: These funguses are boning right now. 
LIAM: Yes, they are. 
SAM: They're getting pregnant. 
LAURA: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LIAM: They are coming together. 
SAM: Ooh! 
TALIESIN: Let's not punch something-- 
LAURA: I don't think we should step on it. 
TALIESIN: -- just because we don't know what it is. 
ASHLEY: We should not step on it if it is alive. 
SAM: Yeah, you don't interrupt love-making. 
LAURA: Also, it's growing really fast. If we make it angry, it might grow on us. 
MATT: A spark of static-- 
MARISHA: I've had a lot of people tell me they want me to step on them. 
SAM: Oh! What? What's that? 
MATT: A spark of static catches your awareness, Caleb. 
ASHLEY: I might be one of them. 
MATT: As a familiar voice comes in. (Essek) "Caleb, I don't know where you are, but wherever it is, you all should come soon. Something big's happening in Vasselheim." 
LIAM: You wouldn't believe me if I told you, dear. We will leave as soon as we are able to. Vasselheim. 
LAURA: What did he say? 
LIAM: He's summoning us back, Essek is. 
SAM: Don't we have to save the Hells? 
LIAM: Ja. 
LAURA: Hold on. 
SAM: Are you going to use a spell slot? 
LAURA: I don't have any! Otherwise, I would've messaged them earlier. 
MARISHA: Maybe if he's summoning us back, that means it's done. 
LIAM: Hold on. Don't I have the-- 
SAM: Ability to reply? 
LAURA: Yeah, can you reply to this message? 
LIAM: I have a sending stone. 
MATT: You have a sending stone as well. 
LIAM: Yeah. So I can speak to the little one. The littlest one. 
SAM: I'm right here. 
LAURA and ROBBIE: (chuckle) 
LIAM: The Bells' littlest one. 
TRAVIS: Your stubby little legs. 
LAURA: Why didn't you do that sooner? 
LIAM: Because Liam just thought of it this moment. (laughter) 
LAURA: I thought you had a keen mind. 
LIAM: Caleb has a keen mind. (laughter) 
LIAM: I can barely see straight. (laughter) 
LIAM: All right, but I don't want to cock it up, you know? 
LAURA: You want me to do it for you? 
LIAM: No, I'm attuned to it, Jester. I'll do it. 
LAURA: All right. I'm just saying I could do it for you. 
SAM: I'm pretty sure you could activate it and she could talk if you're holding it. 
LAURA: If you want. If you want me to. 
LIAM: I think I'll do it. 
LAURA: Okay. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Jester is a very good communicator. 
LAURA: I'm really good at it. 
LIAM: Orym of the Air Ashari. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
LIAM: We are trying to find our way to you. 
LAURA: Ask him if they know anything about Vasselheim. Ask them if they're down low-- 
SAM: First if they're alive. 
LAURA: -- or if they're up higher. 
SAM: Are they alive? 
LAURA: Ask them if they're alive. 
TRAVIS: Jester Lavorre. 
MARISHA: You wasted two words with "the Air Ashari." He's the one with the purple hair. 
SAM: That's three! 
LAURA: That's three words. 
MARISHA: Oh shit, three! 
TRAVIS: It's a stone. 
TALIESIN: Ignore them. Go for it. 
LIAM: Are you safe? 
LAURA: What's taking you so long? 
LIAM: Are you getting out? We'll come if we can if you need. 
TALIESIN: Where are they? Oh, okay fine. Never mind. I thought you'd get there on your own. 
MARISHA: These mushrooms are about to come if they can. (laughter) 
LIAM: World's ending. (laughter) 
MATT: Orym responds with? 
TRAVIS: Oh shit. 
LIAM: Well, where are we in the timeline? 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: (laugh) 
MATT: Currently, you are in Vasselheim approaching the core of the city. 
LAURA: Whoa! 
TRAVIS: Oh shit. 
LAURA: Weird soup. 
ASHLEY: Okay, that's right, we were just going there. 
TRAVIS: Way ahead of us. 
ASHLEY: Weird soup. 
LIAM: (Orym) Wizard. We're in Exandria. 
SAM: Ooh, he answered. 
LAURA: (Imogen) Who are you talking to? (laughter) 
MARISHA: You beat me to it. 
TRAVIS: You can't fucking escape her! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Oh my god. (laughter) 
SAM: (Braius) Ask them if they're alive. Ask them how they're doing. Ask them if they know anything about Vasselheim. 
LAURA: Did they get my message? Did he get my message? 
LIAM: It's really loud here. (laughter) 
MARISHA: (Laudna) I think you have a limited amount of words. 
LIAM: Get back quick. 
MARISHA: You should talk quick. 
ASHLEY: (Fearne) How's the tall woman doing, is she okay? 
TALIESIN: (Ashton) Can they reply to this message? 
TRAVIS: (Chetney) My upper half changed back, but my lower half hasn't. (laughter) 
LIAM: Come home quick. 
MATT: We immediately cut away now to the early morning light pushing through a mostly closed curtain in the interior of a guest bedroom of Whitestone Castle where a figure is sleeping alone on a bed, her red hair tangled as a briefly shuddering bit of arcane static wakes you, Keyleth, from your slumber. The voice of Allura Vysoren pressing into your consciousness. "Keyleth, I know it's early, but major things are happening in Vasselheim. I think you and the rest should be present." 
MARISHA: (Keyleth) All right. No worries. I'll be right there. She just rubs her face. It's a little puffy from where she probably cried a lot. A little bit of that hungover feeling, but she didn't drink. I get up and I start wrangling people. 
MATT: You get your stuff together. As you go and grab your curt-- The last thing you see-- 
MARISHA: I immediately go and try and see if Vax is still here. 
LAURA: Wouldn't he have been next to you? 
LAURA: Oh that's-- 
MARISHA: Didn't sleep together. No. 
MATT: What you do find, however, as you open your door to exit your chambers, that faint very early morning light creeping through, is a single black feather that (gentle swoosh) drifts. Without even a moment's more awareness, you already know that he's gone. But right around that moment, a door across the hallway opens and you see the yawning, stretching mass of Grog Strongjaw pressing out of his morning wake. 
TRAVIS: (Grog) (tired groans) I slept so good. Oh sorry, that happens every morning. Just ignore it. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
LAURA and SAM: (laugh) 
MARISHA: No, yeah. That's fine. 
TRAVIS: (grunts) 
MARISHA: Oh wow. Quite the Sun Tree you got there. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. I don't know what that means. 
MARISHA: Where's the others? Have you seen anybody yet? You just woke up, what am I talking about? I'm going to go to Vex's room. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: I like that it's my room. (laughs) 
TALIESIN: (Percy) You decorate it. (laughter) 
MARISHA: (knocks) Hi, morning. Sorry, I know it's early. 
LAURA: (Vex) Is he here? 
MARISHA: I was wondering if you knew that answer. Is he? Where did he sleep last night? I snuck away when you all were talking. I'm sorry. 
LAURA: It's all right. It was hard, I'm sure. We stayed up quite a while, but I thought he would go. 
TALIESIN: I offered him the best room, but I don't think he used it. 
MARISHA: I get the feeling he's not here anymore. We're requested in Vasselheim. I'm going to go find the others. 
LAURA: Keyleth. 
MARISHA: Yes? 
LAURA: I love you, dear. 
MARISHA: I love you too. 
LAURA: I'm so very proud of how strong you are. 
MARISHA: (hesitant chuckle) When it's required of me. Maybe this isn't the end. We'll see how Bells Hells did. Did he-- Never mind. I go find the others. 
MATT: Who would probably be up early in the morning, crack of dawn early? 
SAM: I got up to go get some Trinket bear claws from The Slayer's Cake for everybody. 
MATT: (chuckles) 
SAM: But I'm having trouble carrying them because I don't have hands. 
LAURA: Wait, what? 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Oh, because you're still a-- 
LAURA: No, you're a horse. 
ROBBIE: It's a good thing you've got Cerkonos at your side. 
LAURA: You have-- 
ASHLEY: You have your arms on top. 
SAM: Oh, I do have arms. I do have arms. (laughter) 
SAM: I forgot how that worked for a second. 
TALIESIN: Did you sleep funny and you can't feel them? 
SAM: I have six appendages? 
TRAVIS: The Polymorph progresses-- 
LAURA: Yes! ROBBIE: Yeah! 
TRAVIS: -- until it's just a Scanlan head. 
SAM: Oh wow, that's so cool! (laughter) 
LAURA: This whole time, you've thought you had no arms? 
SAM: They're just hanging limply. (laughter) 
SAM: I don't know what to do. 
LIAM: I like that you-- 
TRAVIS: Fucking amazing. 
LIAM: -- you bust my balls because I couldn't remember a magic item, and he thinks he has no hands. 
TRAVIS: "I don't have arms." They're right there! 
SAM: What? Oh my god! (laughter) 
SAM: Here, give me my clip clops. 
ROBBIE: Oh my god. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
ASHLEY: Oh yes. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Wait, are you with him? 
ROBBIE: I would like to be beside you, if that's all right. 
SAM: Oh, of course. 
ROBBIE: Yes. You cannot get rid of me. I'll be helping you carry them. 
SAM: (clacks coconut shells) 
TRAVIS: On him. Ride Scanlan. 
MATT: Are you riding him or are you walking alongside him? 
LAURA: Ride him, ride him. 
ROBBIE: Would you allow me? (laughter) 
SAM: Hop on, big boy. 
ROBBIE: It's my greatest honor. (grunts) (laughter) 
ROBBIE: I'll bareback immediately. 
MATT and TRAVIS: Yes! 
SAM: It's warm. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, you bet it is. 
SAM: I think she really likes you. I think you made a really good impression. 
ROBBIE: You are an excellent coach. When you have time, I have a small list of jokes, puns, and quips I'd like to run by you for future endeavors. 
SAM: It's always good to prep them ahead of time. That makes them really feel off-the-cuff. 
ROBBIE: Yes, thank you, I'll explain them to you. They're funnier when you explain them. 
SAM: I don't, okay, sure, we'll work on your delivery, but-- (laughter) 
SAM: I would say be yourself, but I don't think that that's a good idea. So-- 
ROBBIE: (forced laugh) 
SAM: Oh! Oh! 
ROBBIE: I get it, I am not humorous. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: ♪ Hello, darkness, my old friend ♪ 
SAM: Do you drink? Do you take spice? 
ROBBIE: No. 
SAM: Have you ever spiced? 
ROBBIE: I have never spiced. 
ASHLEY: Uh-oh. 
SAM: Maybe some spice would do you good, just to loosen you up. I'm looking at you. 
ROBBIE: Oh, okay. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: This is awkward. 
ASHLEY: Wouldn't he be behind? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, you turning your head. You turn around. 
SAM: Oh, I have hands. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: I would like if you don't tell the others. I would try it once, but just with you. 
SAM: Really? 
ROBBIE: You seem like you would be a good babysitter. 
SAM: I would, you know I have some in my saddlebag back there. 
ROBBIE: Maybe later, maybe later. 
SAM: Okay, okay, okay. We'll wait 'til the time is right. 
ROBBIE: I feel like it has to be the right environment. 
SAM: Sure, sure, a safe, dark space, friends around. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
SAM: Do you want her there, too? 
ROBBIE: For the first time? 
SAM: Well, it might be a bonding experience. You might confess things. 
ROBBIE: Oh my god, I'm so excited about this idea. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Yes. 
SAM: Okay, I'll set it up. 
ROBBIE: Just grinning ear-to-ear. (laughter) 
MATT: The rest of you-- The rest of you, meaning probably just you at this point. 
ASHLEY: Yes, knowing that Vax did not take the best room, I did. So I am sleeping and still snoring in the ginormous bed, just finally getting the best sleep. Sleeping like a baby. 
MATT: All right, who's the first to wake Pike? 
TRAVIS: Me! 
ASHLEY: (snores) 
TRAVIS: (heavy knocks) (crashes) The door just splinters into the room. 
TALIESIN: No, no, roll for that. 
TRAVIS: They really don't make these as strong as they should. 
ASHLEY: Look at this big bed! 
TRAVIS: What up, bud-- Oh! (stomps) 
ASHLEY: (shouts) (laughter) 
MARISHA: Pike goes flying. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. (thud) 
ASHLEY: (shouts) 
TRAVIS: Sorry, sorry, sorry. I pick her up, dust off her head. (grunt) How'd you sleep? 
ASHLEY: I slept so good. 
TRAVIS: Really? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, weirdly. After all of the events, I don't feel like I've ever slept so well. 
TRAVIS: Wow, maybe there was a big cathartic release. 
ASHLEY: I think that's what it was. 
TRAVIS: A card, cardiac-- 
ASHLEY: You actually said it right the first time. 
TRAVIS: I got it right the first time, amazing. 
ASHLEY: What's going on? Was everybody up? 
TRAVIS: I don't know. I just came in here first. Do you have any food? Oh, no, Keyleth's up. (gasps) And she looked concerned. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Wonder if Vax is still here. 
ASHLEY: We should go see. I don't think he is, which is why I slept in this bed because I figured he was not going to come in here, so I just (hums). 
TRAVIS: And you just claimed it? 
ASHLEY: I did. (sighs) 
TRAVIS: Tough spot. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, let's go see. 
ASHLEY: Let's go see. 
TRAVIS: But brush your teeth first because goddamn. (laughter) (laughter) 
MARISHA: Keyleth goes down to the fireplace and the sitting area where everyone was chatting last night before she slinked off and ghosted to see if maybe Vax passed out next to the fire. 
MATT: Unfortunately, no sign. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: The sadness and expectation kind of meet the middle of your mind. As you process it, the smell of fresh baked goods fills your nose as two of your companions-- 
SAM: (coconuts clacking) 
MATT: -- enter from the outside of the castle. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
SAM: Oh, you're up. 
MARISHA: I am, yeah. I tossed and turned a lot last night. 
SAM: We brought breakfast. 
MARISHA: Oh! Oh, did they not box them for you? 
TRAVIS: Just on the floor. 
MARISHA: Did you-- You were just holding them loosey-goosey. 
SAM: We were in a hurry. 
MARISHA: Okay. Okay. 
SAM: The truth is he fell off, and they spilled all over the ground. We had to pick them up and-- 
MARISHA: You were riding. 
SAM: I'm not good at carrying. That's the problem. 
MARISHA: I see because you have little T. rex hands. 
ROBBIE: They seem very normal to me. I feel like that's rude to him. 
MARISHA: Oh, well, it's Scanlan. He can take it. 
SAM: It's how we show love. It's okay. 
ROBBIE: Oh okay. I'm sorry if I'm overprotective of you. 
SAM: No, I like it, I like it. 
MARISHA: I am your peer. 
ROBBIE: Oh yeah. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: I feel a little messed up over the last few days, I'm sorry. 
SAM: She's cool, she's cool. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, I'm sorry. 
MARISHA: But he knows that. 
ROBBIE: All right. 
SAM: Don't worry, you can trust her. 
MARISHA: Known each other for 40. Okay, it's fine. (laughter) (laughter) 
LAURA: We come downstairs. Trinket, they went to get bear claws for you, apparently. 
MATT: (bear growl) 
MARISHA: I'm plating the bear claws. 
LAURA: Oh, they're for us apparently. 
ASHLEY: Wait, wait, wait, why weren't these boxed? 
LAURA: You know, we have to-go baskets. 
ASHLEY: Yes, we do. 
MARISHA: Apparently, he fell off of Scanlan and the box. I don't, just-- 
TALIESIN: You were riding Scanlan? Really? 
ROBBIE: Yes. 
LAURA: Exciting. 
ROBBIE: His haunches are firm yet supple. 
TALIESIN: We've heard. 
LAURA: (chuckles) 
SAM: Where'd you sleep last night? 
ASHLEY: I slept in the best room in the house. 
SAM: Well, you weren't in my room, so that's not true. (chuckles) 
ASHLEY: Well, there's many great rooms in this house. I slept where I thought Vax was going to, and he-- 
SAM: Isn't here. 
MARISHA: Yeah, you know, I got a message from Allura. Very first thing crack of dawn this morning, and she's requesting us in Vasselheim. She said it was important. So I think we should (snapping) snap to it. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to run over, and I'm going to hug Keyleth very tightly. 
MARISHA: (sighs) 
ASHLEY: Are you okay? 
MARISHA: Yeah. I'll be okay. I'm always okay. 
ASHLEY: I love you very much. 
MARISHA: I love you, too. I love all of you. Let's go maybe get some good news or bad news. Maybe it's all bad. Maybe it's all gone to shit. 
SAM: No, we're together. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
SAM: It's always going to be good when we're together. 
MARISHA: It'll be good. You know, we haven't done a little, a group trip in a long time. I know we've all been scattered, and you've been finding yourself for whatever midlife crisis you've had, but I don't know. It's been a while since Dalen's Closet, so maybe we could plan that for the future. 
TALIESIN: A bit of family might be nice. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
ASHLEY: Could be fun. Yeah. 
SAM: I'm in. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, me too. 
MARISHA: And you can come, too. 
ROBBIE: Thank you. 
MARISHA: I didn't want to be weird with, if you feel like-- 
ROBBIE: I assume we're peers. I was also summoned. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
ROBBIE: Ah. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
SAM: You can transport eight of us, right? 
MARISHA: Through plants, yeah. As long-- you just got six seconds, so you got to sprint. 
SAM: You should go ask if-- 
ROBBIE: Oh, yes, yes. 
SAM: -- Lieve'tel should join us. 
ROBBIE: Oh, should I? 
SAM: Yes. 
ROBBIE: Where is she? 
SAM: I don't know. 
ROBBIE: Where is she? (laughter) 
SAM: Why are you talking to the wall? 
MATT: You don't know? 
MARISHA: I think she's in Vasselheim. I think you'll find her in Vasselheim. 
LIAM: She's from Vasselheim? 
SAM: Oh. 
ROBBIE: All right. I'm sorry for my impropriety. His energy is infectious. 
MARISHA: It's something, yeah. 
TALIESIN: I feel "infectious" is an absolutely appropriate word for Scanlan. 
LAURA and MARISHA: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Infectious, I've had that before. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: (sighs) 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Was her name "Fectious"? 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: How did you know?! (laughter) 
MATT: As we shift back from there-- 
TRAVIS: Too powerful. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Too powerful, level 20 druid. 
MATT: Yep. To the-- 
MARISHA: Bamf over. 
MATT: Well. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
MATT: As you all start heading towards the Sun Tree-- 
SAM: And we bamfed there. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: And we-- 
MATT: We all, we come to your troop, Bells Hells. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit. 
MATT: Tensely walking through the quiet, still crowded, staring streets of Vasselheim. Beyond the main exterior walls, you realize what you thought adjusting from your trip from Ruidus and beyond was perhaps a morning light is indeed the transition to evening, a sunset more than a sunrise. The glow of the setting sun throwing the pinks and purples across the clouds that consume the majority of the air above. The passing of the recent gentle snowstorm itself starting to break to glimpses of a blue sky. Cold wind strikes through as you watch a populace stepping from their buildings to see what is going on. The aftermath of the recent conflict, the tension in the wake of priests and clergy speaking of days of uncertainty and a moment that may have already come or soon will, in which everything shall change. As you are escorted by the most elite and decorated of Vasselheim Bastion soldiers and leaders, you can sense, without even needing to look, the hundreds of weapons that are trained on you with every step as every soldier, every piece of militia, armed civilian that looks towards you, there is a combination of fear and mistrust. For some, a bit of hope. Even those that looked upon you with friendliness and threw behind you when you last left the city, your arrival here brings an unease that is palpable. As you step within each progressive interior guardian wall of the ancient Dawn Cradle city itself, you watch as the gathering populace grows denser and denser towards the base of the Heaven's Stair Mountain. 
MARISHA: (Laudna) Are we on trial? 
LIAM: (Orym) I think everyone here is just holding their breath. 
ROBBIE: (Dorian) What exactly are we supposed to tell them? 
MARISHA: I have a feeling they have some sort of idea already. 
LAURA: (Imogen) They probably sent word. 
TRAVIS: (Chetney) But remember, it's about leverage. We have all the leverage. 
LAURA: Yeah. We need to speak to the gods, not just the people. 
SAM: (Braius) We have some experience. We've spoken to a few already. Will they come to us? 
LAURA: I don't know. 
ASHLEY: (Fearne) Maybe. 
SAM: Do we signal them somehow with a spell or a-- Wait, can you do it? You're-- 
LAURA: I mean, I don't think I can just-- They're probably aware. 
ASHLEY: I feel like they know. Does Imogen look like Imogen right now? Or is she still in the form of-- 
MATT: Imogen looks like Imogen. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: Though because of your Ruidusborn connection to her, you do feel there is almost a layer of intensity to the thrumming heartbeat of that energy that connects the two of you. Make a perception check for me, Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Wait, let me get back to Fearne. 
MATT: Just a couple characters juggled here in 30 minutes, it's fine. 
LIAM: (like Fearne) Just sorting through my tabs. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, let me just get to the correct tab. Oh, it almost flung at me. Perception is pretty good, I think. 
LAURA: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Oh! Okay, yeah. 22. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
MATT: 22 is quite good. 
ASHLEY: Sure. 
MATT: You recognize what you can only assume to be the alien presence of Predathos contained within your friend, sense-able through that Ruidian connection. You swear it's just getting faintly stronger each time you pick it up. That as reduced as you may have made it, it's definitely temporary. It doesn't take long for you to glance and see that those that once looked upon the interior chambers of the Platinum Sanctuary, the high priests and Dawn Marshalls of this city that all looked down at you with concern to trust, now all look like they're on the other end of a standoff. As you reach a point in your progression towards the deep part of this city, that council does not move, signaling the end of your journey as now you stop and look around, and the entire populace is upon you. 
LIAM: Are we in an open square section of the city? 
MATT: The open of the center of the city at the base of the Heaven's Stair Mountain, the massive staircase that climbs up to the Platinum Sanctuary. The peak still casting shadow down as the light is getting dimmer and dimmer. 
TRAVIS: Anyone trailing us? Anyone hovering above us? 
MATT: Above you, you can see perched all among the mountain what looks to be various snow griffons that are armored with barding. You can see I mean, all sections of the surrounding city. You can see thousands upon thousands of civilians in the distance. But the remaining armies of Vasselheim and the guest militia that survived the conflict of the Malleus Key are all trained upon you. Highbearer Vord steps out from the opposing line. "Bells Hells, you have stepped into the very center of the Moon of Ill Omen charged with the means of our pantheon's salvation. Conflicting reports speak that perhaps you are agents for the God-eater. Please clarify what you represent and what news you bring back." 
LAURA: We don't have time. That's the news we bring. It doesn't matter what you think, we didn't go there to sow chaos, we went there to help. And we're running out of time. 
MARISHA: We seek counsel with the gods. It is imperative that we talk to them as soon as possible. 
MATT: Earthbreaker Groon off to the side of the front line speaks, "And what of Predathos?" 
ROBBIE: We stopped Ludinus from using his power. 
LAURA: The only option we had was to contain it for the time being. 
MATT: "Where is it contained?" With his voice, you swear you can hear a crackle of thunder rolling in the distance as the cloud grows darker on the periphery. 
LIAM: Orym steps in front of Imogen in front of the entire crowd. That's his answer. 
MATT: The Highbearer acknowledges with the faintest of nods. The only time you've ever seen fear enter the eyes of one of the eldest Dawn Marshalls of the eldest city. "She bears the God-eater. What do you intend?" 
LAURA: Do you expect us to tell you? We're here to talk to the gods. 
MATT: "We represent the pantheon of this world, and have for generations. People have died and given their entire family's future to see your safety to your destination. All we ask is clarity." 
LAURA: We seek counsel with them to ensure their survival. 
MATT: It's at this point, emerging from the opposite side of the circle, the black veiled Mistresses of the Matron step from the outer edge. 
MARISHA: (chuckles) 
ROBBIE: That stressed me out, man. (laughter) 
SAM: Go to her. (laughter) 
MATT: One of them steps forward and plucks a black bead of obsidian and rolls it into the snow before her. It carves a path before the black begins to roll out. (rolling noises) Then (puffs) it casts this faintest shade that extends out hundreds of feet, like a black bird expanding its wings impossibly wide. There's a communal gasp and the sound of armor shuffling as soldiers step onto their back foot as weapons clattered to their side. You watch as this black bird-like form, immaterial but present, rises into a spectral shape of a cloaked female, her white mask standing protective of your troop, like a dome of black sheer silk. 
MARISHA: She's over top of us? (gasping) 
ASHLEY: That's so cool. 
LAURA: If you look up, you can see straight up her dress. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Is she wearing panties? 
SAM: She is. They're kind of dirty. 
TRAVIS: Don't say "panties," that's gross. 
MARISHA: "Don't say 'panties,' that's gross"? 
LIAM: It's an endless void. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Do you think she'd give me some of those ball bearings. 
LIAM: Is that where we go when we die? 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughter) 
SAM: I sure hope so. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughter) 
MATT: In the cold stillness, the echoing voice of the Matron rings out like crashing waves of static in resonant godly words. "They carry the egg that would eat all, but they do so at the behest of all of our futures. They are here with my protection. And I would ask all of yours. For as it was said, there is not much time." At which point the wind begins to pick up around her and the cloak begins to swirl and spin. You see the faces of the thousands around looking at you, becoming more gray and vague like their details, the sharpness begins to blur, like a boundary is being drawn that leaves them in a distant dream beyond your current acknowledgement and understanding. The clouded somewhat sunset-broken skies grow gray and dark. Indeed you look up into the shadow of the arched Matron's visage, and you see from the core of her the skein of golden threads stretching out. As each begins to reach the distant horizon, you see sparks begin to glide along them. As the sparks grow closer and closer, shapes become visible. You see the spectral image of some hooded, cloaked wraith-like entity as it seems to almost slither along this thread. You see flickers of glass-like eyes and fangs snapping through the wind as it comes. Another you see brighter than the others, a burning star-like ball. It looks like the shining glistening set of armor. One by one, the images and consciousnesses of the various gods of Exandria begin to drown out your vision of the city itself. Until here under her shadow you are surrounded by a council. At times, just colors and pillars of shifting emotion. With a blink for a moment, you see clear shapes. A bearded, muscular man who seems to roil like the storm. You see a woman of white hair and an endless unraveling spool of scrolls. You see a dark squat and furious being, its jaw full with teeth of a bleeding eye. You see the shadow of extending spine arms. Eight. from a female form. You see a squat, chiseled man, himself adorned with all manner of tool and hammer, stone in form and rigid and timeless. A pillar of strength. One by one, they all flicker into view and then pass into color and formlessness here in this communal vision. It's at this moment that all of them become aware of you. What you know to be the Dawnfather speaks first. "Matron, why do you call the family here? Where do we stand on the precipice of oblivion?" The Matron shrinks and instead joins your presence. Human height, in that same position. Is it subservience? Is it solidarity? You're uncertain. But her presence isn't felt smaller. More, you are present a unit. "These eight are the only keys any of us have to survival. And I believe they have earned the right to share the path forward." Her mask turns and faces you, Imogen. "Show them what you carry." 
LAURA: (exhales) I turn toward the Dawnfather and I let the fury of Predathos that feels like almost vertigo inside of me, come to the surface for a moment, and all of my lightning flares very bright and I look into his eyes so he can see. 
MATT: For a brief flickering moment, you see Imogen. But you see around her this immaterial shape of extending red and blue, a clouded concept of hunger and the flesh in crystal. You see the protean image of what you've just battled in the core of Ruidus. In that moment, all of the gods flare, burning brightly, all the color of the chamber shifts. Suddenly, you are now engulfed in white light from all sides as now the shapes that define them melt away and instead, you just see		 two dozen burning beings, not unlike the first visions that you had in the ruins of Aeor. You see how they were before they came here. Brought and fearful. One of them speaks up. "Well then, should we eat her? Is that how we stop it? Eat the eater?" Another voice says, "(chuckles) I think not. I'm more interested in who goes first. Do we start to run now? After all, it's only the slowest that need to worry." Another voice peeks out from the opposite side from the flashing of color and movement. "Our children would not abandon us. If they wished us dead and gone, it would be unleashed already. Hear them out, all of them." As you feel their attention focus onto the Matron and you see one of them shift and be like, or both of them. You see the faintest dark spot beyond the shoulders of them, a flicker of darkness, that burning flame in one shape that looks like an eye before it flickers out of view. "Tell them what you've seen, Bell's Hells. Tell them what you've done. And tell them what we can do to free us all." 
LAURA: As you can see, I have Predathos contained. His power grows, but there is a little time. I joined with him on Ruidus. There wasn't another choice. But when I was within his mind, if you can call it that, I saw those of you that he had destroyed already. There were two. When I joined with him, I could sense all of you. And I felt that hunger, I feel it now. But everything else-- Everything else disappeared. The mortals on Exandria, they were darkness, they didn't exist to Predathos. So we offer you a chance at survival. You mentioned running. That is something you can do. We won't stop you from doing what you want, obviously. But if you don't want to run, if you'd like to stay with your children, we offer you the chance to do what you did before, what we witnessed you doing before, which is to accept a mortal form. 
MATT: (rumbling) You feel this rumble strike through them. The one that roils and flashes like a storm. "They hold us hostage. Our creations hold us hostage!" And the voice in the back goes, "Ah, indeed. Perhaps we earned it in time." Another familiar voice goes, "Oh, trust me, they're very good and very clever. But don't worry, I've had quite a few conversations with them and they're cleverer than you think." The Matron goes, "I have been working with them and though you may view me from outside your kin, I do care about each and every one of you. Each and every one of you." As she turns her mask, you can see that she scans the various where you assume the heads would be. And they are in different places. One, you can see its form writhing like a worm, multiple arms flickering and shifting. You see one with massive curled horns that burn back, and a flame flickering on its shoulders. As it flickers past you, Braius. You feel this, (rumbling) this fire burning your chest as it nods. 
SAM: And now I look like Grog in the morning. (laughter) 
MATT: You see one whose hair seems to drift and extend endlessly and almost encircles the others, itself an extension of the horizon. You see one that looms behind a massive beast of shifting heads, of hooked-toothed mouths itself, the colors shifting as it glances. You have never felt more small and more powerful. "The Rites of Ascension have been reassembled. Rewritten. Reconfigured. We now weave the fabric of reality, concept, and possibility into the Rites of Catatheosis." All the gods pause. 
SAM: Because they don't know what that word means? (laughter) 
LAURA: Who's going to admit it? I know, do you know? 
MATT: One is like, thesaurus.com. 
MARISHA: But the Crawling King he doesn't know. 
SAM: I definitely know what it means! (laughter) 
LIAM: I fucking hate cats. (laughter) 
MATT: One of the voices, soft but stern. "So we return to mortal form for some. For those who have been there, it's not so bad. But what of our realms if we're not here?" The Matron responds, "Should we die, our realms fade with us. Predathos devouring our essence. The souls of the claimed returned to the eidolon cycle and we are no more. But if we bind ourselves to Catatheosis, we bind ourselves to Exandria as the Kryn bind themselves to their beloved Luxon. Diminished perhaps, but no more than our isolation has imparted in our protective eternity. We will be loosening our grasp collectively on the order of this world and allow a balance not yet seen, perhaps one even greater. We shall be reborn to live amongst our children. Indeed, for some a familiar journey. We will experience this world we've cultivated in ways that will enrich us, break us from that attachment, perhaps even in time, break us of our eternal enmities. We will grow, live, love, hurt, and pass as our beautiful children always have. And with it, be given more clarity in our purpose than we would've ever had otherwise." 
LIAM: Orym steps forward and looks at all of these massive beings of light. If you're still not convinced, we caution you to look at this practically. We have Predathos contained for a moment, yes. But that moment will pass, whether we want it or not. And someone far worse could be holding Predathos now. History is littered with mortals trying to ascend and pull you down from your place and take your thrones. But if any of you love this world and its children as you claim to do, then walk amongst its people. Live with us. There will no longer be any need to tear the gods down from the sky. No wars between gods and mortals. Equilibrium. 
MATT: Make either a persuasion check or a wisdom check. 
LAURA: Can I give advantage on that since I did a lot of talking earlier and I didn't roll at all? 
MATT: No. 
LAURA: Damn it! 
MATT: I'm going to have you roll here shortly because currently we are now engaged what is essentially a group skill check to convince the pantheon. 
SAM: Cool, cool, cool. 
MARISHA: Group skill check. 
TRAVIS: How do I kick off initiative? 
LIAM: Persuasion is okay. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
LIAM: It's okay. 
TRAVIS: Because this is what I've been waiting for. 
MATT: So if any of you have any spells you want to utilize to improve your chances, if any of you will have some particular arguments, displays, reveals, personal attributions you think might speak to their experience and the promise of a future, now is the time or forever hold your peace. Orym, what did you roll? 
LIAM: Well, I want to see if I can make this go a little bit higher with something. Checking, checking, checking. 
ASHLEY: The gods are here. 
ROBBIE: Oh. They are. 
LIAM: No, those are for investigation stuff, nevermind. 22. 
MATT: 22, okay. Another voice, wistful, playful, speaks. "There will likely be unforeseen circumstances to the order of our world changing. In this future of our boundaries, our presence maintain the veils that stood timeless in our wake. Some immutable truths might wax and wane with our absences, but is this not a better risk than to embrace oblivion entirely?" Another voice goes, "Oblivion? Will this free the Chained Oblivion?" The Matron, "The Oblivion is not of our kin and outside both this rite and the vision of Predathos, it shall remain sealed under our guardianship and those of our children." There's almost a collective sigh of relief amongst all those entities present. 
TRAVIS: Wow. They're all sweating it. 
SAM: Mmm. 
TALIESIN: (whistles) 
MATT: Another voice you see from a very honorable, powerful presence of a metallic light that shines dimmed in the presence of the Dawnfather, yes, but like the brightest of sunlight reflected off the smoothest shield mirror, its fanged draconid presence almost smiling as it looks around. "What of the Whispered One and his false ascension?" As they all look around, that same flicker of shadow that you saw briefly appear before on the periphery, like the echoes of a voice behind goes. "All truths are mutable in time, all mysteries a problem to solve." The Knowing Mistress speaks up in response. "Indeed, and in time, we shall solve you once more." The shadow flickers out beyond the tension periphery. 
LAURA: Just don't let him take a mortal form. Predathos will take care of it. 
MATT: The Matron looks back to you. "The rites take us all who are present, for the gate must fall for it to work. So those who wish not to be part of this, run. Those that do, we shatter the gate together and are reborn somewhere." 
LAURA: That's cool. 
MATT: Now make your persuasion check from the basis of your discussion up to this point. 
TRAVIS: Cast your spells or whatever. I cast Blindness on Imogen. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: No. 
LIAM: No. 
ASHLEY: No. 
LAURA: Do I get advantage? 
LIAM: I'm standing next to you so it's not a one. 
LAURA: Oh thank god! 
ROBBIE: Oh, wow! 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Wow. 
ROBBIE: Jeez. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
ASHLEY: That was not-- 
TRAVIS: Hey, don't do it twice. 
ROBBIE: That's amazing. 
ASHLEY: That just made my stomach drop. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, 25. 
LIAM: (laughs) 
MATT: 25. 
TRAVIS: Good throw. 
ASHLEY: I'm so stressed. 
LAURA: Jesus. 
MATT: Hmm. The horned one seems to step forward a bit. With that massive, imposing, With that massive, imposing, almost oppressive presence comes a heat with it, and you can hear the flickering flames of the endless hell as it speaks. "To walk as them once was a travesty. To walk as a mortal forever is a curse. At least obliteration brings dignity." As he's having this conversation, a second conversation enters your mind, Braius. "You have done well, Doomseed. Follow the call of my other servants and find me again. The rewards for your service are unimaginable, for once we do, we find them, and it's a race to punish them forever." 
SAM: Can I respond? 
MATT: If you'd like to. 
SAM: Lord, might I suggest that fate is a strange thing. Fate brought me to you. It delivered me in my time of need. You gave me great counsel. You gave me great power and great opportunity, and I listened, and I used your weapons and your tools. I learned your lies. Might I suggest that this is an opportunity for you? Just as fate delivered me to you, I feel like it might have delivered me to these people. I've always sought a family and I sought it in your hells. But I found another Hells. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
SAM: And they're pretty cool. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: They're not pious. They're not believers. They're not devotees like you would expect. But I think that that's right. They represent Titans and Ashari and fey and Ruidusborn and the wisdom of ages and the wisdom of death and the charisma of the wind. They're not godly people. Which is why I think they can be trusted. Like you, they've just been searching for something, searching to reconnect with something, someone, as I have, a family. And I fear that if you run, you'll never get a chance again to reconnect with yours. You've given me great wisdom and advice. I guess my last prayer is that you would listen to ours and accept the offer and find your family again. 
MATT: Make a persuasion check for me. 
ROBBIE: Well, done my friend. 
TRAVIS: Roll a one and die. 
ROBBIE: I'm going to give him bardic inspiration. 
MATT: (laughs) 
LAURA: (laughs) (chimes) 
SAM: I don't know what that is. I can't read it. (laughs) 
ROBBIE: 11. 
LIAM: It's under your iPad. 
ROBBIE: Not great. Two. 
SAM: Okay. 
LIAM: But the modifier is good? 
SAM: 27. 
LAURA: (gasps) (laughter) 
MATT: As this looming, fiery entity that you can only sense to be the Lord of the Hells, present, seems to stalk between some of the flickering lights and colors. "Ah, of course, they want us brought low, brought to their level." It snaps towards Braius, and as it does, you hear in your mind, "Interesting point. Well, hold true to your faith. I'm not daunted or worried for you. Fractured faith is my specialty." 
SAM: I'm sorry that I couldn't be truer to you, but when I promised you I would betray them, I guess I lied. (laughs) 
MARISHA: Fire. 
ASHLEY: Touché. 
MATT: (growls) (growling chuckle) You all watch as the flames seem to grin. A low, resonant chuckle emanates and reverberates outward as you hear in your mind, "I'll find you." 
LAURA: Did he go away or did he-- 
MATT: He steps back with the rest of the troop. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
LIAM: I like that we're in a psychedelic miasma. 
LAURA: Yeah, woo. 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
MARISHA: It's weird. 
TALIESIN: Yelled at by geometry. 
MATT: Would anybody else wish to contribute perspective or points to this? 
MARISHA: Laudna will step up. 
SAM: (Paté) "And so will I." (laughter) 
MARISHA: You speak first. 
MATT: (Paté) "Should listen to them and stuff. They're nice." 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: "That's all I got." 
MARISHA: It is quite intelligent to weigh all of the risks if you step down from where you've been ruling on high. Even if there are moments where you cannot be present in between whatever this Catatheosis demands of you in those moments of oblivion between life and death, I think it's important to remember that just because you're no longer on this realm of Exandria doesn't mean you're forgotten. I wasn't forgotten. It was these people that are standing next to me who brought me back. Look at where you stand. Look at this city. It is built in your image, in your honor. Thousands of people love you, worship you all, good and bad. It's the beautiful balance that we trifle with on a day-to-day basis. In those times where you may not be able to represent your domain, your pillars, you will have others. You have taught your children well. They will uphold your teachings, what you stand for, your moral proceedings. We've interacted with many of your champions in the time that we've been on this wild quest. Just because you're gods does not mean you're not afforded to lean on those around you. Lean on those that believe in you. Trust them. This is coming from someone who has not worshiped a god before, but understands what it means to not be forgotten during those times where you are not present on this world. MTT: Make a persuasion check. 
LAURA: Roll better than me. Step right next to her. 
LIAM: It's 30 feet. 
MARISHA: Eugh. Are you next to me? Do I get advantage? 
LIAM: No, if it's a one. 
MARISHA: Only on ones. 
LIAM: It only fixes ones. 
TRAVIS: You can reroll anything. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Damn. It's a nine. It's not good. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: (explosion) 
MARISHA and SAM: (scream) 
TRAVIS: Good choice. Good choice. 
LIAM: Delilah busts out. 
MATT: The light of one side of this surrounding council seems to crystallize into a lattice of metal and plate and hooks. A voice streaks through it like it's straining. "I will not be forgotten. My children--" 
MARISHA: Yes. 
MATT: "-- have been taught. But you do not have to be the one to show me. You're adrift." 
MARISHA: It sounds like we're agreeing. 
MATT: "(growls)" 
MARISHA: Okay. Whatever. Yes. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I think it sounded better than it actually came out. 
MARISHA: Did it? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MARISHA: To me-- 
TRAVIS: You kind of fumbled it. Yeah. 
SAM: Your jaw sort of unhinged during it and then you were drooling for most of it. 
TRAVIS: We reset it. 
MARISHA: Is this campaign over yet? (laughter) 
TALIESIN: The Crawling King is making a threat right now? 
MATT: No, this one appears to be more the presence of the Strife Emperor. You see chains dangling and what looks like heavy, flail-like swinging bits of metal that protrude from an armored exterior. "Some of us have left our impression long ago. We know we will not be forgotten. All will kneel in time." 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, come back as a king, it'll be great. 
MATT: Some of the light entities turn. "He's always like that." (laughter) 
ASHLEY: We're really not that bad. And I don't know if you can tell, I'm from the Fey Realm. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
ASHLEY: And the time that I've been here, I really have been able to accomplish so much, and I'm not even a god. I'm a professor. I'm a princess. Fey Scion of the Ancient Flame. And most importantly, I'm a mother. But I sit between thrones and I get to whisper in the ears of all the so-called gods and queens and sometimes gods. But I think-- When we watched some of you take a mortal form-- And I look at the Everlight. You fell in love. You had children. I'm going to look to Asmodeus. Do you know how much she loves you? I think you've all forgotten that you all are a family and you all should get a choice to do what you want to do. Stay and you will enjoy life here, I promise you. But if you don't, you better run for the rest of your life. 
MATT: Make a persuasion check or an intimidation check, your choice. 
ASHLEY: Oh, I wasn't trying to intimidate him. Let's see. 
LIAM: You sounded scary at the end there. 
TRAVIS: You got this. You got this. 
ASHLEY: I didn't mean to, but it just came out. Okay, I'll do this one. Okay. Where's my persuasion? Right here. 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: 25. 
SAM: Okay. That seems high. 
LAURA: That's good. That's good. 
SAM: That seems good, right? 
ASHLEY: It is, it does. But, I mean, it's gods. I don't know if it's-- 
LAURA: You make a good point though, Fearne, because your family, you've been together for so long. I think you've forgotten how much fun it is to meet someone. To meet someone new. Imagine the fun of trying to find each other. What a new experience after all these years. 
MATT: "Hunt each other." 
LAURA: If that's what you want to call it, sure. 
ASHLEY: That's a fun game, too. 
ROBBIE: She's right, though. Life can be fun. Dorian's going to reach into his pocket and he's going to grab a little set of dice that he's had with him since the very beginning. 
LAURA: Some silly string. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: (sprays silly string) 
ROBBIE: Close. 
TRAVIS: Falls into nothing. 
ROBBIE: Not quite silly string, but he is going to do a little one-handed flare layover in front of the gods, and he's going to start to juggle his little dice. I didn't really get into dice until I was a little bit older. (chuckling) 
ROBBIE: In taverns after shows. It's pretty fun. (laughs) Do you know why it's fun? Oop! He stumbles one. Because you don't know what's going to happen. You've been gods for so long. Wouldn't it be nice not to know what comes next? 
MARISHA: Laudna spikes the dice out of his hand. 
ROBBIE: Gah! (laughter) 
ROBBIE: You get my point. Then I'll do a quick pirouette, pull out a flute, and go: ♪ Doodly-doo ♪ (laughter) 
ROBBIE: I put it back in. He's like: You have a chance to live a life. I've lived more life in the last few months than I ever thought I could. Life is fun. Certainly legacy is important. Family, responsibility, honor. But to live life for yourself for once instead of your followers, to be free. 
LAURA: It's beautiful. 
ROBBIE: Well. I'll grab one of the ones I fumbled. I'll throw it over my shoulder. 
SAM: (winces) 
ROBBIE: We'll never know what that was. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: And that's okay. 
MATT: Make a persuasion or performance roll, your choice. 
SAM: Ooh. 
ROBBIE: Uh-oh. 
LIAM: "Close-up magic always bewilders us." 
ROBBIE: Not great, but-- Not great. 
ASHLEY: Guidance? 
LAURA: Can I help him with advantage on that one? 
SAM: Can I give him Bardic Inspiration? (laughter) 
MATT: I'll allow Bardic Inspiration-- 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
MATT: -- as an under the wire here with no number confirmed. 
ROBBIE: What's the number? 
SAM: I think I only give a six. 
ROBBIE: A six? I'll take it. I'll take everything I can get. That's great. 22. 
MATT: 22. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Okay. 
LIAM: Nice. Nice. 
MARISHA: That's good, that's good. 
SAM: It's my last Bardic Inspiration. 
ROBBIE: My last one, too, for you. 
SAM: Aw. 
ASHLEY: Aw. 
MATT: One of the figures that leans inward with a golden flair to it. (Arch Heart) "See, it's really marvelous what they're capable of doing, if I'm going to be honest." 
ROBBIE: I learned how to juggle last week. 
MARISHA: It was so good. 
MATT: "I know you've all had your own businesses and your own conflicts and such, but (sighs) they're constantly surprising us left and right. I know we've all been getting tired. We've all just been going through the motions. Why not mix it up? Why not, why not write a new chapter together, eh?" As the Arch Heart's presence pulls back a bit. The multi-headed beast entity, the dragon behemoth that hulks on one side, its multiple heads (snarling) seeming to all come in and encircle you as it begins to curl inward. The Matron cocks her head with a, "Okay, bring it." 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: They all seem to speak in unison, a chorus of five voices. "What if we just ate you now and ran?" 
TALIESIN: (chuckles) 
LAURA: I don't think you could run fast enough. 
TALIESIN: Five heads. What's that like? Would you come back with five heads? Would you be something else? I don't know if you have a temple in Vasselheim. I certainly haven't seen it. 
MATT: "(snarls)" 
TALIESIN: You know what we call that city where I come from? We call it the coward city because all they did was act like your children and build themselves a tiny wall just like yours. You fucking coward. Why don't you come down here and find out which of you is lying to yourselves about what you think of us and what you'd want to do? I've seen plenty of it. I have heard those intimate little conversations that a few of you had in Aeor. Every fucking word. I don't believe you. You might believe you. Put your money where your fucking mouth is, all fucking five of them. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, baby. 
MATT: Make an intimidation check or persuasion check. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to go persuasion, since it's negative two. 
MATT: Well, intimidation means you can use your strength if you want to. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I know. I was just being-- (laughs) 
MATT: (laughs) 
LIAM: Sick. 
SAM: (anxious moan) 
TALIESIN: 24. 
SAM: Oh! 
ROBBIE: Hey! 
LAURA: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: Woo! 
SAM: Good rolls, good rolls, good rolls. 
ASHLEY: "All five of them." 
SAM: Sorry, Marisha. 
ROBBIE and LAURA: (laugh) 
MATT: The heads seem to encircle around, and as they grow close you feel that burst of primordial strength, up from inside. Something ancient and instinctual begins to brim and swell within as the seams on your arm and on your various fractured self begin to glow a reddish hue in reaction to the proximity of this furious, godly presence. The heads stop. "We'll find you first. (snarls)" 
TALIESIN: I cannot wait. 
LIAM: You can kill us all here, no question. But if you do, you'll all be devoured on the spot. We're offering you a chance to write new chapters in your story. Otherwise, you're just closing the book. 
MATT: The palest one, that seems to almost shimmer like a distant pearl lost amongst a bit of a dark blue horizon. 
SAM: (sneezes) 
MATT: Bless you. 
LIAM: Stop. 
LAURA: Bless you. 
ASHLEY: Shh! 
TALIESIN: Come on. 
MARISHA: We're talking to a god. 
ASHLEY: Jeez! 
MATT: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: It's okay. 
TRAVIS: Moo. 
MATT: The light of the Moonweaver seems to extend from its form. You feel the lycanthrope urge, You feel the lycanthrope urge, that pulse within you begin to swell a bit at the renewed presence. "We all like to say that we are something beyond the animals we found here, but we all still work on instinct. We just have a higher opinion of our own. This one's been quiet." 
TRAVIS: Me? 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I thought you were dead. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Oh wow. 
TRAVIS: This is real, right? 
MARISHA: I'm not entirely sure. 
TRAVIS: Okay. I didn't know if I had passed and this was just the start of it, a greet you at the gate sort of a thing and everybody shows up that you've met in your life. 
MARISHA: If you're dead, we're all dead together. 
TALIESIN: Or we're all spicing. 
LIAM: Go to the light, Pop. 
TRAVIS: Go into the light. It's funny, I've actually been looking for death in all of this. I've been doing this for a long time. 400 years. Four hundo! Got the badge and everything. There is a lot of cowardice around here. I assume it's just fear from the unknown. The next great adventure, whatever that could be. You guys should be excited about this. It's a chance to really mix things up. We don't fear death. Well, I think some of us do, only because we know the people that would be left behind would miss us. I would only miss them. We had to face that fear. We came out on top. Imogen over here is about to change everything. But it really is simple. It's kind of a binary choice. You can live or you can run, and running is finite. It always catches up with you. But if you choose life, let's see you make it to four hundo and break my record. 
MATT: Make a persuasion check if you'd like, Chet. 
MARISHA: Come on! 
TRAVIS: I didn't want to say anything because my fucking-- They suck! 
MARISHA: Persuasion is bad? I know. 
TRAVIS: They're both zeroes. 
ASHLEY: Guidance. 
LAURA: Can you guide him? Guide him. Guidance. 
ASHLEY: Guidance. 
SAM: You can't do that. 
MARISHA: Different angle, so you can go with a higher stat. 
LAURA: You can do that. You can guide him! 
MATT: It's a quick spell. 
ROBBIE: I don't have it. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. Guidance. 
MATT: You guys have everything at your disposal. 
TRAVIS: What is it? 
LAURA and MATT: Plus 1d4. 
ASHLEY: A d4. 
ASHLEY: Is it really going to help? 
TRAVIS: Just a d4? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: It might help. 
TRAVIS: I've played this game before. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Me too. 
ROBBIE: You're going to roll a nat 20. It's fine. 
TRAVIS: Natural 20. Natural six. 
ASHLEY and LAURA: Oh! (laughter) 
LAURA: I really thought he was going to say 20. 
TRAVIS: It's a nine. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: Aw, look at you. 
MARISHA: It feels good down here, doesn't it? 
TRAVIS: It does! 
MARISHA: Hey! 
TRAVIS and ROBBIE: (laugh) 
MATT: As the various council of lights and colors seem to share seem to share various vibrations or tones, conversation that's not meant for your mortal ears. It sounds like distant symphonies warming up. Discordant, but still beautiful. You feel like your heads are being talked over, a private conversation that you can just make out the briefest and dullest of murmurs through a dense wall. As they all glance back down towards you, one of you gets to make the final conclusion remark. 
MARISHA: Oh my god. 
MATT: This is your-- So all of the previous checks are all modifying this final roll. 
LAURA: Oh boy. 
SAM: Oh my. 
TRAVIS: Farts are funny. 
LAURA: Is this a persuasion roll? 
MATT: It's however you want to present this. If you have Enhance Ability or any spells that can give anyone advantage-- 
ASHLEY: Pee pee, poo poo. 
MATT: -- on this one. 
LAURA: I have a really high modifier if I can roll it. 
MATT: Anything that can-- Use now what you got while you can. 
SAM: Modifier of what? Persuasion? 
LAURA: Persuasion. Mine's 17. 
SAM: That's one better than mine. 
LAURA: Oh! 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: I'm going to Enhance Ability on you. 
MARISHA: Your persuasion is 17? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: What? 
TALIESIN: What the living fuck? 
ASHLEY: That's gnarly. 
LAURA: That's why I keep trying to give advantage to you guys. (laughs) 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god, I have no spell slots left. 
MARISHA: I'll keep an illusion handy in case I want to soup up anyone's point with an imagery. I can do that. 
LAURA: Oh! 
ROBBIE: That's good. 
ASHLEY: Shit, I don't have any spell slots left. Wait, hang on. 
LAURA: It's okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay, I do. I want to do Enhance Ability. I would like to cast Enhance Ability on Imogen and that would be for charisma checks? 
LAURA: Charisma, yeah. 
SAM: It's Bear's-- No, not bear. 
ASHLEY: Eagle's Splendor. 
SAM: Eagle's Splendor. 
LAURA: That gives advantage? 
MATT: Eagle's Splendor. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: You do have a spell slot for that? 
ASHLEY: I do. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: I do have one 2nd-level spell slot. 
LAURA: Amazing. 
ASHLEY: That is literally all I have left. 
MATT: Oh jeez. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: It's been a long day. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: I'm going to start-- Go. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: Dude, you've got this. 
MATT: The Matron now swells back up to her primary size. But as she does so, she lifts you all up with her, like you're all being carried within a body of water that doesn't have any density or material to it as you all drift within her. You now find yourselves drifting what would be at eye level without eyes. You are peering into the focal consciousness of the great gods of Exandria and what you can make of them, and they all are on the cusp of a decision. 
LAURA: So much light. So much power. It must be a hard decision, to run away or to survive. Whatever you choose, you should make a decision quickly because I'm getting hungry. (quiet laughter) 
MARISHA: I don't know what kind of imagery could support that. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: It's a big floating middle finger. (laughter) 
MATT: The Matron's voice-- 
TRAVIS: It's on brand for us. 
LAURA: Maybe you can make Predathos look like it's-- 
MARISHA: That's exactly it. So I'm going to cast a Minor Illusion and the image that we fought of Predathos with a spiked head and a Reiloran face starts to almost emanate as this visage that starts to arise around Imogen, like its power beginning to manifest 
MATT: The Matron's voice brims beneath Imogen's as the visual of this expanding Predathos and your point begins to disseminate amongst the now shifting and quaking light. The Matron's voice says, "Join us, or join the annihilation that took your precious Tengar." Go ahead and make your persuasion roll. So the DC on this is a 30. 
MARISHA and LAURA: 30?! 
MATT: Yeah. 
LIAM: Let's go, witch. 
MATT: For every point below 30, a member of the Pantheon does not join in the ritual. 
LAURA: Oh jeez. 
TRAVIS: Say it again. Say it again. For every number below 30. 
MATT: For every point below 30-- 
LIAM: Whoa! 
MATT: -- a member of the Pantheon will not partake in the ritual. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) I love it! 
MARISHA: Okay, well, hang on. 
TRAVIS: I love it! 
LIAM: Wait, wait, wait. 
SAM: If you get a 13-- 
MARISHA: There's 12, right? 
LIAM: There's 12, so-- 
LAURA: I can't get below, unless I roll one, which I can't do because I'm right next to you. 
MATT: There are 20 members of the pantheon. 
MARISHA: 20, okay. 12 Primes. 
TRAVIS: A couple of them are bitches. 
LIAM: But it could just be one. Like, if you roll a two plus your 17-- 
LAURA: Then there's 18. Yeah, so a lot of them would-- 
LIAM: All but one or two. 
LAURA: A couple. So we'll see, we'll see, we'll see. 
SAM: No, no, no, it's a 30, it's a 30. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: Not a 20. So she's got to roll a 13 to get all of them. 
TRAVIS: We should funnel our energy into you with a little "Let chaos reign." 
LAURA: Yeah, let chaos reign. 
TRAVIS: While you're doubling the dice. (wheezing laughs) 
TRAVIS: This is just a-- 
LAURA: Okay, ready? 
TRAVIS: -- this is the Pantheon. 
ASHLEY: I'm going double time here. 
SAM: This is a critical roll. 
LIAM: Are they both-- 
LAURA: They're both cocked? (laughter) 
SAM: Do it on the table! 
MARISHA: Let chaos reign! 
MATT: Do it on the table. Do it on the table. 
MARISHA: Come on, come on! 
SAM: Oh my god. 
LAURA: 20! Natural 20! Natural 20! (screaming) 
MATT: No! No fucking way! 
ASHLEY: That's a natural fucking 20! Holy shit! 
LAURA: It's a natural 20! 
ROBBIE: It's a nat 20! 
ASHLEY: No fucking way! 
TRAVIS: What?! 
ASHLEY: No fucking way! 
ROBBIE: Let's go! 
LAURA: It's a 20! 
ROBBIE: It's a nat 20. 
ASHLEY: Holy shit! 
TALIESIN: Oh my god. 
ROBBIE: There it is! There it is! (laughter) (yelling) 
MARISHA: I'm going to cry! 
ASHLEY: I was like, "I think she's going to roll a natural 20." 
TRAVIS: Whoa! 
LAURA: Oh my god! 
TALIESIN: (yells) 
MARISHA: Augh! 
TRAVIS: Wow! 
MARISHA: Shut up! 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
MATT: What was the other dice? 
LAURA: A three. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Whoa! 
ROBBIE: Amazing. 
SAM: So wait, that's a 40. 
LAURA: No, that's a 47! No, no, a 37. 
ASHLEY: 37. 
MARISHA and LAURA: 37! 
SAM: Plus three. 
LAURA: No, no, that's a three. That doesn't add to it. 
ROBBIE: Quick, make up seven more gods! 
ASHLEY: No, that's advantage. 
SAM: Oh, this was an advantage? 
LAURA: This was advantage. 
SAM: Oh, I thought you were doing Bless or something. 
LAURA: 37, 37! 
SAM: Okay. 
ROBBIE: (sighs) 
MARISHA and TALIESIN: (groan) 
TRAVIS: Wow! 
SAM: So, wait. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god! 
SAM: That means we get seven new members of the Pantheon! 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LAURA: Hey, that's us, that's us. 
TALIESIN: Most of us become gods. Who's staying back? (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Yep, that's fair. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You'll stay. 
MARISHA: Can I get the two lost gods back? 
LIAM: Yeah, the two lost gods are like, "'Member? 'Member me?" 
MARISHA: "Remember me?" 
ASHLEY: I have goosebumps. 
LAURA: Whew. 
TALIESIN: Don't know how that happened! 
ASHLEY: That is so-ho-ho-ho-ho! 
SAM: I'm glad we got it on video, because otherwise no one would ever have known. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: I got it. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I'm glad we got it. 
ROBBIE: Got it all. 
MARISHA: Holy shit. 
MATT: That symphony of tones-- [excited yelling from Robbie's phone] (laughter) 
ASHLEY: You want to watch it again right now? 
MARISHA: Immediately reliving the moment. 
LIAM: Oh my gosh. 
MATT: The symphony of tones, an endless heavenly and demonic music that swirls amongst this council of ancient powers begins to crescendo in ways you don't understand until eventually, (whooshing) the shadow of the Matron fills your perception, darkness consumes you, and the sense of warmth fades to cold on your cheeks, and then suddenly you blink and your eyes are back in Vasselheim. Everyone looks around you expectantly. (echoing shattering) Everyone looks up. The sound of a cracking glacier magnified a million times echoes across the sky as it looks like the very air above cracks. (crackling) Golden spidering breaks begin to carve out of nothing as you see the flicker of countless arcane divine magical equations, a flash of the Divine Gate itself beginning to crumble. Everyone is still in this city and silent. (crackling) It echoes off in all directions. The clouds (booms) are scattered off and now the clear blue sky itself, an endless kaleidoscope. A kaleidoscope of crackling gold before (thuds) it all dissipates at once, and in that moment, you hear rumbles, you hear the shifting of mountains and everyone at once knows the gods again walk Exandria. With that, (whooshing) the wind picks up, and not ephemeral, but physical, the blackened feathered cloak of the Matron reaches out of the ground and climbs her way physically on this plane for the first time. Everyone's taken aback by this. The mask appears over the crowd and her voice rings out, present, cold, but hopeful. "The ritual requires one more piece." She looks over towards the direction of the Kryn. "I need your artifact." 
ASHLEY: (gasps) 
MATT: The Dynasty all looks about each other and the Bright Queen says, "We do not take into your-- We cannot allow such a relic into the hands of your-- We do not understand. What is this for?" They all look amongst each other. You can see the Matron's extended arm, the fingers awaiting. "Then if not you, who can take it?" 
SAM: Who can take it? What? 
LAURA: Wait, what? 
MARISHA: What? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, what the-- 
MATT: "If I'm to bind my family with this ritual, I need a beacon to complete the binding." 
ASHLEY: We have a beacon. 
TALIESIN: Will, I do? Do we? We don't have a beacon? 
MARISHA: Coo! Grog has a beacon. (pigeon coo) Vox Machina does in their bag of holding. 
SAM: I don't we know that. 
LAURA: They do? 
SAM: I don't think we know that. 
MARISHA: We don't know that. (pigeon coo) 
ASHLEY: Is Vox Machina, here? 
TALIESIN: I'll do it. 
MARISHA: I don't know. 
LAURA: Wait, are you? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Ooh! 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
MARISHA: Wow! 
TRAVIS: Shit! 
MARISHA: Wait. 
LAURA: Ashton. 
TALIESIN: It's all right. This is good. 
SAM: What will it do to them? 
TRAVIS: Wait, wait, wait. You're going to start being-- 
TALIESIN: Spoilers. 
TRAVIS: -- selfless now? 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Oh. I go over and I give Chetney a very uncomfortable hug and I make it hurt. 
TRAVIS: (grunts) 
TALIESIN: I love you, old man, and you've never understood me, and I'm going to walk forward. 
ASHLEY: Well, wait, wait, wait. What does this mean? 
MATT: The Matron's arms begin to curl around and as she does, you watch soldiers (whooshes) get pushed back by some unseen force as the very ground itself, the center of the city, this open pathway was once this circular courtyard that sits the base of the mountain suddenly (whooshes) begins to alight with all manner of runes, and you watch as she moves her fingers about. The inside of the mask's dark eyes begin to glow that same silver glow. She's in the process of writing this equation that in itself is a fractal within a fractal. It is an endless pattern that looks like long, thick, runic bands built of smaller runes that are built of smaller runes, that are built of smaller runes. And actually carves it out in the space. This is but a sketch as you look up into the sky and notice that it is mirrored on an impossible scale amongst where the Divine Gate once stood. Without even turning, she just extends her hand towards you. 
TALIESIN: I walk forward and I offer my left hand. 
MATT: She takes your hand and lifts you off your feet, places both of her hands around you, almost like you are the core of a prayer position. 
LAURA: Ashton. 
TALIESIN: This is good. 
SAM: Is it goodbye? 
LAURA: You're good. 
TALIESIN: This is why I'm here. 
LAURA: You're a good person, Ashton. 
TALIESIN: I know. I am. (sighs) I know I was looking for way too long. I am Ashton Greymoore of Bassuras and I am nobody's child. Not the gods, not anybody. Let's go for it. 
ASHLEY: Wait, wait. I'm going to run over really quick and give him a hug. You're so wonderful and I'm very proud of you. 
TALIESIN: This has been the best time of my life. 
ASHLEY: Me too. 
TALIESIN: And we'll see how it goes. I'll try and visit. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TALIESIN: (sighs) I love you and I love you all very much. (huffs) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: (huffs) Fuck, now I'm embarrassed. Let's just get this over with. 
TRAVIS: Ash-- 
LAURA: We love you. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: That's all I needed. 
TRAVIS: Go get 'em. 
TALIESIN: (sighs heavily) 
MATT: As you're nodding, the rest of you notice the runes are extending across his body and starting to weave up (hums) and all seem to almost extend like endless circuit board curvatures and knots, Gordian, and extending endless around, all piercing into, it seems, the exterior of where the exposed oddity that resides within his head crystal before the Matron (whooshing) jettisons him at an incredible speed (whooshing) up into the air, (whooshing) nearly breaking the sound barrier. You see atmosphere burning off the sides as he's sent higher than you could ever conceive in but a matter of moments before he (thuds) gets almost caught up in the spider web network of this ritual. You can only see the smallest of faint spark of where he sits up there. You see on the horizon a flash of the Dawnfather's starry head stepping through the landscape towards the city. You see the burning flames of the infernal armies returned from the strike on the Malleus Key. Once an apocalyptic sight, now a mystery and a fear. Distant black clouds on one horizon roil and flash with anger, another with pure spite. All of the emotional elements of this world converge at this moment. And here, the Matron removes her mask, and when she looks upon you all, it is just a pale absence of expression, and she looks at it. "We'll return." She places it back on, holds her hands out, and you hear that odd chorus of discordant harmonic music again, as the entirety of your horizon view gets brighter and brighter and brighter. You almost can hear more horns in the distance. You can hear the cracking and sundering of something far off. It's almost like in one moment, you can feel every war, every conflict that has echoed through the history of Exandria itself brimming and about to strike at once. Time, presence, matter, philosophy, concept, existence all seems to almost fold into one moment as in the core of this equation, this old forbidden fraction rite made new, made strange, made hopeful. There is a flash of gray. A flash of Greymoore. (whooshing) In a blink, it's all gone. She's gone. The storm's gone. The rumbling's gone. The lattice is gone. Just the blue sky above. 
LIAM: With Orym's passive perception, our friend is gone? 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
LIAM: Mm. 
LAURA: (huffs) 
LIAM: 18. 
MATT: 18. There's an intense held moment where all breaths are still clutched in the chest of everyone present in the city, likely everybody in this world. Those who did not know what was even happening feel a change, a shift, stronger than that of the snapping back of the magical leylines that themselves were on the cusp of untethering and tearing apart. Twice in an oh-so short time the magic of this world has been rewritten. But as that collective exhale is happening, you see just the faintest dark shape. As the limp form of your friend, Ashton, plummets from an impossible height. (whooshing) 
LIAM: I point him out. He's there! 
LAURA: Oh, I don't have any spells, I don't have any spells, I don't have any spells. 
TRAVIS: I got him! I got him! 
ASHLEY: Ugh, my god, I have nothing. 
MARISHA: As soon as he's in range, let me see. 
ROBBIE: How long have we been gone? 
LAURA: Not long enough. We haven't had a-- 
ROBBIE: From the last fight, how long? 
LAURA: We haven't had a short rest. 
ROBBIE: But no, but I mean, how long? Do we know how long it's been time-wise? 
MATT: Oh, it's been a number of hours. 
ROBBIE: A number of hours? 
MATT: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Okay. He's barely alive, but I've still got Coriolis. I'm just going to-- 
TRAVIS: Horse dragon. 
ROBBIE: (whistles) I'm going to direct him him up into the sky to try to fly up to try to catch him. 
MATT: All right. 
ASHLEY: (sighs) Amazing, amazing. 
MATT: So, do you leap onto Coriolis to guide him? 
ROBBIE: No, I'm just sending him. 
MATT: Sending him? All right. 
ROBBIE: Sending him. (whooshes) 
ASHLEY: Oh, I got something. 
MATT: Gliding up in the air as fast as it can you watch as Dorian's conjured steed rockets up into the pale blue endless expanse. Make a dexterity saving throw for Coriolis, please. 
ROBBIE: With his stats? 
MATT: With his stats. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Come on, dragon. 
ASHLEY: No. 
SAM: Solid. 
LIAM: What is it? 
ROBBIE: Unbelievable, man. Five. 
LAURA: Five? 
MATT: Coriolis heads upward and attempts to snag and scoop up and Ashton, but with a slight unfortunate calculation and speed, instead you watch Coriolis get smacked and knock off his axis and spins out as Ashton now spins twice as fast and is now-- 
LAURA: I invoke a sorcery point and start flying in the air. 
MARISHA: Take me with you. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: Can you? 
LAURA: Yeah, I'll grab Laudna and fly up to try to reach Ashton as he's coming down. 
MATT: (rumbles) He's just spinning-- 
LAURA: You've got him, Laudna. 
MATT: -- end over end over end. 
MARISHA: As soon as we're close, I'm going to try and, it's my last spell of Feather Fall. 
LAURA: Oh. 
MARISHA: But I know it's going to be about timing. 
MATT: It will be. 
TRAVIS: Oh man. 
MATT: Okay. So given the trajectory and pacing here and the wind's picking him up, since you are flying, I'm going to need you to just roll and add your dexterity modifier. 
LAURA: Oh god, I'm such a bad-- Okay. 
MATT: You're just trying to beat a 12. 
LAURA: Okay, try and beat a 12. 
ASHLEY: That's good, that's good, right? 
LAURA: It is 11. 
MATT: As you go (whooshes) flying as best as you can, the trajectory of his plummeting and the upper streams of air that have been battering him as he plummets have sent him off course, and as fast as you can fly, you try and meet before you realize you're now trying to catch up with him, but he's falling faster than you're flying. 
LAURA: (groans) 
ASHLEY: Wait. 
ROBBIE: I mean, how far is he from the ground? 
LAURA: Can you double the distance of your spell, and again, do you still have any sorcery points left? 
TRAVIS: I'm just playing outfielder. 
MATT and LAURA: (chuckle) 
LAURA: Splatter. 
TRAVIS: Now's the time. 
TALIESIN: I'll gladly take you with me. 
TRAVIS: Come on, Ashton, you motherfucker! 
MATT: He is very off target, so you're going to have to try and rush off to that. 
TRAVIS: (quick footsteps) 
SAM: At least be a wolf. 
MARISHA: Hang on, let me think, let me think. My instinct is for you to drop me. My instinct is for you to drop-- 
LAURA: But how close are we to him? I mean-- 
MATT: I mean, you basically tried to head him off and then you got there a little bit too late-- 
LAURA: And he's going down as-- 
MATT: -- and now, you're trying to chase him downward. 
LAURA: But you wouldn't fall faster than I could fly down. 
ROBBIE: When I see them miss, I know I'm far away. I'm going to kick on my winged boots and try to go as quickly as I can toward him as a backup. 
MARISHA: Terminal velocity. 
LAURA: All right, I'll drop Laudna. 
SAM: She'd be able to fall-- 
LAURA: I let go. 
SAM: -- at 100 miles an hour. 
MATT: Okay. You are both plummeting at a comparable speed unless you have a way of increasing it. 
MARISHA: -- try and go HALO drop style because he's unconscious, right? 
LAURA: So he's going like this. 
MATT: He is, but he is also a very dense figure compared to the flailing waif of a reed that you are. 
MARISHA: It's terminal velocity. 
ASHLEY: Okay. So I have-- 
MATT: True. 
MARISHA: Once you get there. 
TRAVIS: Hmm. 
ASHLEY: I thought I used both of my Wild Shapes, but I still have one open. 
ASHLEY: Hang on, let me ask Dani and see if she, I feel like I used them both. 
MATT: You were trying to-- 
TRAVIS: I'm trying to run under him, but not to catch him. Just as a last-minute-- 
LIAM: If you can-- 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: -- idea. 
SAM: You just want to see him die? (laughter) 
MATT: He just wants to be there to watch it? 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Ha ha! No, but as I'm running, I'll take out the Staff of Dark Odyssey. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: But I got a long way to go. I can see him, and these fucking legs are tiny as shit. 
MATT: He's a ways off. Do you have any way of increasing your movement speed? 
TRAVIS: I do have my boots of speed, which is a bonus action. Is that still up? Boots of speed. Yeah, it's just a bonus action. So I can-- Total of 10 minutes. I only used them during combat, so I should have another-- 
MATT: That doubles your movement speed? 
TRAVIS: It does. So it's 80 feet instead of 40. 
MATT: That is a faster fly speed. So with that-- 
TRAVIS: It'll only be for six minutes, I think. 
MATT: Oh, he'll impact before then. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: I'm running. I don't know how far off he is. 
MATT: So you are basically running as fast as you can, weaving through the crowd. That's the biggest challenge here is pushing through the crowd because the city is dense right now and he is off, the wind has picked him off heading eastward with the wind off to the eastern side of the Heaven's Stair, so you're having to carve through the crowd. Could you make an athletics check for me to see if you can manage to push through the crowd. I'll say athletics or acrobatics, your choice, to try and slip through untethered to even try and get beneath him or somewhat within the radius of him falling. 
TRAVIS: Natural 20. 
SAM: Whoa! 
ROBBIE: Oh yeah! 
ASHLEY: Oh yes! 
MARISHA: Yes it is! 
ROBBIE: Let's go! 
TRAVIS: On the Uk'otoa dice. 
MARISHA: On the Uk'otoa die. 
MATT: Dude, fuck yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: I have a Wild Shape. 
MATT: Do you? 
ASHLEY: Yes, so I am going to shoebill. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: And try to-- 
MARISHA: Triangulate here? We're going to try and triangulate. 
ASHLEY: Triangulate. 
MATT: Okay. What's your fly speed of your shoebill? 
ASHLEY: Standby. 
TRAVIS: What's a shoebill sound like? 
LAURA: (shoebill call) 
TRAVIS, ASHLEY, and MARISHA: (awkward shoebill calls) 
ROBBIE, TRAVIS, and LAURA: (more awkward shoebill calls) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: (single shoebill call) 
ASHLEY: I think I was using giant eagle. Standby. 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: (silly shoebill calls) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: (shoebill-like quack) 
ASHLEY: What did you just ask me? What was the what? 
MATT: The fly speed. 
ASHLEY: Flying speed, I'm so sorry. My brain is so scared right now. 80 feet. 
MATT: 80 feet, okay. Yours was 60 feet, right? 
LAURA: Of fly, I think so. 
MATT: Yeah. So you are a little bit faster and you're about the same speed as Chetney. So if both of you take off at the same speed, you can try and get there as quickly. He was dealing with the challenge of the group, you're dealing with the challenge of the winds. 
LIAM: Does it change if Orym (running start) and leaps onto the shoebill's back? Does the flying speed change at all? 
MATT: Not at Orym's size, no. 
LIAM: Okay, so he's riding along. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Hopping on? Great. 
LIAM: An extra set of hands, yeah. 
MATT: All right. So as you take off with Orym on your back, the wind's buffeting you as you get over the hill. That cold wind is still blowing through, especially with the blast out of the clouds clearing the sky. There's a vacuum that filled there and now it still seems like there's a equilibrium of pressure that's starting to cause the sudden gust. So I need you in your shoebill form to make an athletics or acrobatics check, which would be either a strength or dex check. 
LIAM: Can Orym assist by constantly using the Gust cantrip for this entire flight to try to help stabilize against the wind that's buffeting her? 
MATT: Sure. Add a plus one to that roll. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: Just because it's a Gust cantrip against massive-- 
LIAM: Of course, of course. 
MATT: -- readjusting winds. I'll give you a minor bonus. 
ASHLEY: You said strength or dex? 
MATT: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Come on, you bitch. 
ASHLEY and LAURA: (gasp) 
ASHLEY: Shut-- It's a natural 20. (cheering) 
ASHLEY: Oh my god! 
ROBBIE: Perfect! 
MATT: Are you guys saving them all for right here at the end of the campaign? 
ASHLEY: Woo! 
SAM: I'll take a picture. 
ASHLEY: (excited squeal) 
MARISHA: Oh god. 
ROBBIE: Oh man. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. I almost didn't roll that one, too. I almost rolled the janky one just for fun. 
ROBBIE: Oh my god. 
ASHLEY: I'm so glad I didn't. 
TALIESIN: Not for me you don't, motherfucker. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. No, I know, I know, I know, I know. 
MARISHA: So many fans. 
ROBBIE: That one's falling. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
MATT: So describe to me how the two of you triangulate and stop the death plummet of your unconscious friend. 
TRAVIS: What are you doing? 
ASHLEY: Okay. I'm flying with Orym on my back and I really get a good wind gust, and I'm going a little crazy, but then all of a sudden I get a really good glide. I'm like: I know I got it, I know I got it. I got him, I got him! I'm on the right path. I feel it. 
LAURA: Are you going to try to grab onto his belt-- 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LAURA: -- or get underneath him? 
ASHLEY: So I think I'm going to try, with my talons, to try to grab him. 
MATT: Okay. He's still moving fast and you don't think you're going to be able to intercept him. Just barely probably miss him, but you're getting close. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: What are you working on? 
TRAVIS: I'm playing the greatest game of 500 ever where I'm running, tracking this thing fucking coming as fast as I can, and the staff is out. If he breaks 100 feet, I'm going to aim the staff at him and hold-- 
LIAM: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh. That's smart. 
TRAVIS: -- one spell, the only thing I have slots left for, which is Banishment. 
LAURA: (gasps) Smart. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: That's interesting, yeah. 
TRAVIS: I'm just doing this. 
MATT: Okay. So-- 
MARISHA: I'm still falling, trying to get within-- 
TRAVIS: But I have to be within 60 feet of him. 
MATT: Correct. 
MARISHA: I also have to be within 60 feet for Feather Fall, so I guess whatever happens. 
MATT: Yeah. Exactly. So-- 
ASHLEY: But I'm also trying to get streamlined. 
MATT: Right, no, understood. 
ASHLEY: So everything is just like this. 
MATT: So Laudna, you are trying to keep up with him, but you're both falling at practically at the same rate, unless you have some way to try and propel yourself forward. You're both at terminal velocity, essentially. 
ROBBIE: I guess my movement speed would be half of yours, so I'm half the distance behind you. I'm way behind, but I'm there. 
ASHLEY: 40? Okay. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: Yeah. So you're working-- Everyone's pushing their way there. Braius, you're watching from a distance? 
SAM: Now is our time, Asmodeus. (laughter) 
SAM: We can betray them now-- (laughs) No. (laughter) 
MATT: Weirdly, no response. 
SAM: I'm furiously painting this. Wow, this is great. (laughter) 
MATT: So you are not able to get to him in time to grab him. 
SAM: Oh no. 
MATT: Orym, you are-- 
LAURA: Oh! How far away-- 
LIAM: Can I hang off? 
MATT: You're going to try and do what? 
LIAM: Well, I think I've already used Seedling. 
MATT: You've used your Seedling. Yeah. 
LIAM: That's gone. 
LAURA: Oh. 
LIAM: Shit. 
ASHLEY: Can I hold him in my beak? My talons? 
TRAVIS: I have one-- 
LIAM: Yeah, how close? How close-- 
LAURA: Oh, we could go in closer. 
LIAM: -- are we to him, and how close are we to them, and how close are we to the ground? 
MATT: The moment you're both colliding here, there will be a moment where basically you would pass overhead. You could try and make a grab for it, but you're not going to be able to fully intercept or catch him. It's all down to the wire at this point. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
SAM: There's one thing I can do. 
MARISHA: I have a pitch. Oh, go ahead. 
SAM: There's one thing I can do. If I was hoofing it over there, I only have one spell. 
ASHLEY: Break his fall. 
TRAVIS: Paint him in repose. 
SAM: I could do Plant Growth (laughs) to try to make a little cushion for him. 
MATT: What's your movement speed? 
SAM: My movement speed is only 30, but Plant Growth I can cast 150 feet away from me. 
MATT: All right. I think the speed that they have to travel, because they're double moving at 80 feet fly speed over a number of rounds-- 
SAM: Sure. 
MATT: -- to even catch up with him as he's falling, I don't think you'd be able to get enough distance to cast the spell in time. 
SAM: Then I'll slowly walk over there. 
MATT: Okay. While working on your painting. 
SAM: While I'm painting. 
MARISHA: Can I gauge roughly how far away I am from Ashton right now as we're falling? 
MATT: Probably about 100 or so feet. 
LAURA: If I had fastball specialed her, though, flown down and then chucked her instead of letting her go. (laughter) Would she have gone faster? 
MARISHA: I've got a pitch. 
TRAVIS: Throw the love of your life. 
MARISHA: I've got a pitch. 
ROBBIE: Throw your girlfriend-- 
LAURA: Yeah. (laughs) 
ROBBIE: -- to the side. 
MARISHA: Tell me if you will allow this. One spell left that I'm saving for Feather Fall. 
SAM: Oh! 
MARISHA: I've got two sorcery points. 
SAM: Uh-huh. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
SAM: You've got Delilah. 
MARISHA: I don't have Delilah. 
SAM: You don't? 
ASHLEY: No. 
SAM: She's just gone. 
MARISHA: Well, she's not active. 
SAM: Can you make her active? 
MARISHA: And do what? 
SAM: I don't know, use her. 
MARISHA: Well, kind of. Hang on. This is warlock shit. Got two sorcery points left that I can cash in for a 2nd-level spell and do Darkness, this is what I wanted to do the other day, 60 feet ahead of me and then use my Shadow Step-- No. 
SAM: Ooh! 
MARISHA: -- to step into darkness. No. That's not going to work, is it? 
SAM: It's very clever. 
ASHLEY: That is very clever. 
MATT: You can try it. 
SAM: It's very clever. 
TRAVIS: What's the reading on Shadow Step? 
MARISHA: Got to be in shadow to jump to another shadow. 
SAM: Does it say shadow? 
MARISHA: In darkness to jump to darkness. 
MATT: I don't know how-- 
LAURA: What would you be able to do? Jump to underneath Ashton's incoming shadow as he's falling? 
TRAVIS: Or do you just want to jump to the darkness? 
MATT: You can jump into dark. You have no shadow to jump into from where you are currently. 
MARISHA: But I can cast Darkness. 
MATT: But you can cast Darkness and enter that shadow. What shadow would you emerge from? 
MARISHA: Could I emerge from under Ashton? That would be sick. 
TRAVIS: It'll be small-- 
MATT: You can certainly try! 
TRAVIS: -- until he gets closer. 
MATT: You can certainly try. 
MARISHA: This is it. This is all I got. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's cool. 
SAM: It's a crazy move. Do it. 
MARISHA: Because we're all trying-- 
TRAVIS: Tiny shadow peeking out of the rhino's butt hole. 
MARISHA: -- something and failing, right? 
MATT: So here's what I want to happen. I want one of the two of you to roll an athletics check to try and grab Ashton, one giving the other advantage. 
ASHLEY: You do it. 
LIAM: Ah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: My athletics is-- 
MARISHA: "Ah, yeah." 
MATT: I need you, Chetney, to roll a dexterity check-- 
ASHLEY: Oh cool. This is-- 
MATT: -- to try and properly time and aim this spell-- 
ROBBIE: I'm sweating. 
MATT: -- to catch him possibly before the impact. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. I'm going to roll my dunamis die, just for Ashton. 
MATT: Laudna, I need you to roll a d20 and add your spell modifier to see if you can manage in the last few moments before impact to cast Darkness, stumble into it, and immediately attempt to momentarily conjure a dark enough spot against the fading light on Ashton's plummeting body to crawl out of him. 
MARISHA: How many of us need to succeed, one or all? 
TRAVIS: Dex saving throw or just regular? 
LAURA: Maybe it's hedging our bets. 
SAM: We don't know. 
ROBBIE: We'll find out. 
LAURA: If one fails and you come up underneath him-- 
MATT: Just a regular dex. 
LAURA: -- he's going to splatter onto you. 
MATT: Just roll and add your dex. 
LAURA: So it's double whammies here. 
MARISHA: I've got Feather Fall. I just have to be-- That's good. I'm going to use my Beau die because it never failed me. It's okay. 
LAURA: That was danger-- 
ASHLEY: That was bold to say. 
LAURA: That was bold. 
ASHLEY: That was dangerous to say something like that-- 
TALIESIN: You said that out loud. 
ASHLEY: -- as you roll it. That's too stressful. 
TRAVIS: That could have been a goldfish problem. 
MARISHA: That is true. 19. 
MATT: 19. 
LIAM: I'm going to spring from shoebill's wing down towards her talons and whisper: Nana Morri, your granddaughter and I need you. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LAURA: Oh! 
LIAM: Dirty 20. 
MATT: Dirty 20, okay. 
TALIESIN: Damn. 
LAURA: Did you roll? 
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: What'd you roll? 
TRAVIS: 21 on the dunamis die. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. 
MATT: So you reach out and catch the edge of his boot loop as he's plummeting. Grab, and the strap breaks, just barely breaks under your grasp as he plummets out of your grasp. The DC was 20. As it breaks and he tumbles, you-- 
LIAM: Oh, it's not meets it beats it? 
MATT: Oh, was it 20 total? 
LIAM: 20, dirty 20. 
MATT: Oh, it was a dirty 20. You're right, you're right. So 20 was it. So, okay. So the order of this would be, you-- 
MARISHA: (laughs) (laughs) 
LAURA: (laughs) You cast the Darkness. (laughs) Sorry, flashback to attacking the darkness. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. (laughter) 
MATT: You cast Darkness and vanish into it in attempt to pull from the shadow of Ashton's body as it's turning end over end. As you begin to emerge from the back of his shadow, his body spins and the light casts the shadow from that side of him, and you instead emerge once more from the space of darkness where you were, the spell itself called back. You are now plummeting, him out of range. 
LAURA: Fuck. 
MATT: You concentrate and get the Banishment spell. You manage to grab Ashton. The boot snaps. You dive harder in, and as you do, you spin-- This is interesting. You spin Seedling around, grabbing it by the vines on its hilt, and then using the handle of it to try and hook the inside of his jacket. It just catches him and strains your bodies. You just barely hold on with Fearne trying pull up as hard as you can. You feel both shoulders pop from their sockets. 
LAURA: Your Captain America moment, except instead of the helicopter it's just a person. 
MATT: Yeah. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: It's a heavy person. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah. It's a heavy person. 
LIAM: Made of stone. Made of stone. 
ASHLEY: He's made of rock. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: As you pick him up-- 
LIAM: And I'm a halfling. 
MATT: -- the momentum of the fall and the density of Ashton still pulls you and Ashley down a little bit, slowing his fall, which allows Chetney just enough time to properly aim and scatter Ashton out of sight. 
LAURA: In your head, you hear: You killed him?! 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Where'd he go? 
TRAVIS: I thought this was the good stuff. 
LIAM: Spell lasts a minute. 
MARISHA: Feather Fall on myself and anyone else who needs it. 
SAM: Wait! 
LIAM: He's going to come back after one minute. 
SAM: I run up. If he comes out in a minute, he's still going to be falling. 
TRAVIS: Is that how this works? 
SAM: Well, I mean, yes! 
TRAVIS: (laughing) Oh! 
SAM: Get under him! 
LIAM: Mattresses, anything. The portable hole. What do we got? 
TRAVIS: 60 feet above the ground. 
LAURA: Wait. 
TRAVIS: Grow your grass patches. 
SAM: Oh yeah! Okay. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
SAM: I'll cast Plant Growth, I guess. 
MATT: (laughs) 
LAURA: Wouldn't he have been falling on whatever plane he was-- I'm saying from the air into your head. 
SAM: Yeah, he could just be falling-- I don't know what plane he went to. 
LAURA: But what whatever plane. 
SAM: He could just be falling! 
LAURA: If he went to the astral plane, he would just be flying really fast in the astral plane. 
TRAVIS: "A different plane of existence than the one that you're on." 
SAM: He would either hit something on the other plane or continue at full force. 
LAURA: For a minute! That's a long time. 
LIAM: I scan the crowd. Is Widogast here? Are the Nein here? 
SAM: Oh, we're far away, aren't we? 
LIAM: I have no idea. 
MATT: As you've rushed beyond the wall now, crowds are rushing up and other figures are catching up. In the midst of all that's happening here, and the shifting of movement here, indeed both the Mighty Nein and Vox Machina have been rapidly gathering to see if they can help at this point. 
SAM: Okay. 
LIAM and ASHLEY: Okay. 
LIAM: So Widogast saw the trajectory and is stalking out that area and is already pulling components out. I-- He-- I-- He-- (Caleb) We are preparing Telekinesis to catch him. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: Okay. A moment passes. Everyone seems to wait for the right moment-- 
ASHLEY: Did you grow grass? 
MATT: -- before you-- 
SAM: Yeah, it's fresh cut. 
MATT: There you go. 
ALL: Aw! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Beautiful. 
MATT: Right as you release the staff born spell and Ashton reemerges at the spot, no more than maybe 30 feet above the ground at terminal velocity. 
LIAM: (whooshes) 
MATT: Widogast, who's been holding his action, immediately casts Feather Fall? 
LIAM: Telekinesis. 
MATT: Telekinesis. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
MATT: -- on Ashton's tumbling form-- Actually, if it's Telekinesis, this will be your-- 
LIAM: Can I use the math and my Keen Mind to match the force to slow him? 
MATT: Correct. 
LIAM: As he comes down. 
MATT: I'll say just roll and add his spell modifier. 
TRAVIS: I love when the DM responds, "Correct." (laughter) 
MARISHA: "Correct." 
TRAVIS: It's like a professor giving you a thumbs up. 
LIAM: That's a very Widogasty way to answer. 
ROBBIE: Thank you. You feel good inside? 
TRAVIS: I did good. 
LIAM: Dirty 20 again. 
MATT: Ashton reappears and then quickly slows down, caught in the telekinetic grasp. 
MARISHA: Jesus Christ. 
LAURA: (Jester) What's happened to him? Them. 
LIAM: (Caleb) Your guess is as good as mine. Bells Hells? 
TRAVIS: Check him! 
ASHLEY: Thank you! 
SAM: Set them down. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
SAM: But not on that blade of grass. That's Henry Crabgrass. (laughter) 
LAURA: "(as Henry) That's okay, you can set him down." 
LIAM: He just slides in a prone position, like a princess on his back down onto the ground. 
LAURA: I run over to him, them-- 
TALIESIN: Mm. Go for it. 
LAURA: And I heal them. 
SAM: Whoa! 
MATT: Well, the first thing you notice as you approach. 
LAURA: Oh. (laughter) (clapping) 
MATT: Ashton remains in one single piece, other than the shattered cavern that is the side of his head. 
LAURA: Oh fuck. 
TRAVIS: Larger than it was? 
MATT: Where that crystal was exposed, it is now just a shattered gap. 
LAURA: Oh no, Caleb. I can try to heal them, but I don't know what this is. 
MARISHA: Let's start with the basics. Is Ashton dead? 
LIAM: Yeah, Orym sprints up and is feeling for a pulse. 
ASHLEY: (Pike) I might be able to do something. Pike is here. Give me just a second. 
LAURA: Hi. 
ASHLEY: Hi. 
LIAM: (Orym) Come on, Ash. 
ASHLEY: Wait, have we met? 
LAURA: I don't know. 
LIAM: Come on, Ash. 
LAURA: You're so cute. 
LIAM: You're our rock, you're our rock. Be our rock, come on, Ash. 
LAURA: Imogen flies down. 
MARISHA: Where's Fearne? 
MATT: The shoebill's flying. 
LAURA: (shoebill screeching) 
MARISHA: Fearne! 
ASHLEY: I've landed, taken off, and I'm running over and I'm just holding him. 
LIAM: She couldn't be that far. Hit the ground. 
ASHLEY: (Fearne) What do we do? What do we do? What do we do? 
TALIESIN: (Caduceus) Does Spare the Dying work, out of curiosity? 
LAURA: Oh, because you had Spare the Dying on you. 
TALIESIN: I'm nothing but that. 
LAURA: Oh wait, you're Caduceus. 
TALIESIN: Yes. 
LAURA: I know what you mean. 
TALIESIN: Does Spare the Dying-- 
ASHLEY: Would Greater Restoration do anything? 
MATT: Spare the Dying? They are not dying. 
TALIESIN: Oh, Spare the Dying is zero hit points. 
MATT: Correct. 
TALIESIN: Okay, so there's nothing, it's not taking, is what I'm saying. 
MATT: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
MATT: Cold. 
TALIESIN: Just checking. 
LIAM: Orym, not Orym, Caleb pulls a large stone that is fastened to his belt and it glows a faint amber color. (Caleb) I may be able to, if we act now, to help your friend. 
MARISHA: What is that? 
LIAM: This is a transmuter's stone. 
LAURA: (Jester) What does that do? 
LIAM: Well, it will bring him back. 
SAM: Oh. 
LIAM: If he wishes to come back. Which, as a wizard, transmuter's stone can be destroyed to cast Resurrection. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: Ooh. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: Ooh! 
MARISHA: Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Yeah? 
MARISHA: The two of you share an identity. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
MARISHA: Is there anything? I don't know. I don't understand how it works, but you all are connected from a primordial aspect. 
ASHLEY: What if I were to give him my shard? Would that be a thing I could do? 
MARISHA: I don't know. 
ASHLEY: Mr. Caleb? 
LIAM: (Caleb) Ja? 
ASHLEY: I have a shard from a titan. Can I get it out and maybe give it to him? 
LIAM: I do not know. I have never worked with such a thing. 
TRAVIS: Fearne, I think we got to get him alive first. 
ASHLEY: Okay, um-- 
TRAVIS: The Transmuter's Stone, if it does what you say, we should try that. 
ASHLEY: Oh, come on. Don't you fail me now. (grumbles) 
MARISHA: I know it was a little-- 
ASHLEY: Wait, did Jester try to heal him? 
LIAM: It's Raise Dead. 
SAM: No, he's dead. 
TALIESIN: No, there's no-- 
ASHLEY: He's dead. Okay, okay. 
MATT: Correct. 
LIAM: Cast Raise Dead. 
ASHLEY: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Hang on a minute. Pike's going to come over. This is a lot to keep track of. 
LAURA: (Jester) This was their brain is gone now. 
MARISHA: Yes, but they were patched up once before. 
LAURA: With a beacon? 
TRAVIS: With dunamis. 
SAM: Something like it. 
MARISHA: Like a potion made of Dunamancy. 
MATT: You look inside the concave space and it's like the inside of a geode. You can see the crystal on the inside, but it's just an absence. 
MARISHA: We had that potion. Do we still have the potion in our hole? 
TRAVIS: One of the dunamis potions? 
MARISHA: Yeah, or did we hand it over? 
LIAM: (Orym) Well, wait a minute, wait a minute. Um, hold on. I-I-I don't know if this will work. Orym takes Seedling and lays it out King Arthur style on Ashton's chest. I-I-If we can get him back, h-h-he can attune to this. His body will grow back. His body will grow back. We just have to bring him back. I don't know how magic works! 
LAURA: (Imogen) What do you mean? 
ASHLEY: Come on. 
LAURA: We can't attune something to him if he's not doing it himself. We can't attune the sword to him. 
ASHLEY: I think Pike has Resurrection. 
LIAM: (Caleb) But maybe I can work together with your halfling friend and I can get him back from death's door, and your little friend can get him the last few steps. Just mechanically speaking, this sword has regenerative-- 
MATT: It does. 
LIAM: -- powers and grows back limbs, fingers, legs, anything. 
MATT: To a living individual. 
LIAM: To a living individual. 
MARISHA: You got rid of that crate that has the dunamis potion? 
ASHLEY: There we go. Okay. Sorry, my Pike wasn't loading. 
ROBBIE: Did you say Pike had showed-- Vox Machina's Pike started to show up. 
ASHLEY: I'm almost positive I have Resurrection on Pike. There it is! 
MARISHA: It was marked with-- 
LAURA: And you didn't use it? 
ASHLEY: No, I don't have any. 
LAURA: Yeah, Resurrection is right-- 
ASHLEY: I've had barely an spells-- I've only used a couple spells, right? 
LAURA: Yeah, I mean, if you can cast it. 
ASHLEY: Okay, Pike is going to go up. Where did it go? 
MATT: Cerkonos, you were saying? 
ROBBIE: I think Cerkonos is there with him and he says: I may be able to help but I don't have the requisite materials. I never used my 9th-level in the fight. I have True Resurrection. 
LAURA: But you need-- 
ROBBIE: But I need-- Or somebody rich. I need diamonds. 
LIAM: How much do you need? 
ROBBIE: 25K worth. 
SAM: Whoa. 
LAURA: Diamonds. 
LIAM: 25K? 
ROBBIE: 25-- 25K worth of diamonds. 
LIAM: I do not have that much. 
ASHLEY: (Pike) Does anybody have diamond worth 1,000? 
LAURA: (Vex) Yes, of course I do. Hold on, let me-- 
ROBBIE: I think Cerkonos, when he suggests this knows that as a tall order. 
TRAVIS: You're in Vasselheim, baby! 
ROBBIE: That suggestion is sad-- 
TRAVIS: You just said that on Rodeo. 
LAURA: I have diamonds. 
ROBBIE: How much? 
LAURA: You said you needed 1,000. 
ASHLEY: I need 1,000. 
LAURA: You need 25? What's the difference here? 
ROBBIE: You only need 1,000? 
ASHLEY: I only need 1,000. 
ROBBIE: Go. Go. 
LAURA: Here. 
ASHLEY: Move! All right, Pike's going to go up. 
TRAVIS: Oh, Pike's here? 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LAURA: We have Vox Machina here. 
MATT: Vox Machina has arrived as well. All three campaigns have now merged at this spot. 
ASHLEY: My D&D Beyond was not loading Pike. That's why I was taking so long. 
SAM: Scanlan is passing out pastries to everybody. This is good. This is a good show. See how it happens. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to go up to Ashton and put my hand over where the space in his head and just above on his chest and on his heart. Just look around. Cast Resurrection. 
MARISHA: Who's on the other end to receive the call now? 
LAURA: (Imogen) The Matron was here. The Matron was here. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. I can't even think about that. 
ROBBIE: Oh, the gods. 
MARISHA: Yeah, they're gone. Who's going to be here? We don't know yet. 
LIAM: (Caleb) I can facilitate without the help of the gods. 
MARISHA: You can resurrect Ashton. 
LIAM: I have what is-- Correct. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MARISHA: I think-- How well would that stone fit in that space? can you say? 
TRAVIS: Well do your thing. What happens? 
LAURA: Yeah, what happens? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, might as well find out now. 
LIAM: Pretty good, it'd be a little lumpy, but-- 
MARISHA: He was already lumpy. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: The magic of your ritual carries and completes. Which is it? 
ASHLEY: Resurrection. 
LAURA: Resurrection. 
SAM: Do you have Revivify? Because that might be easier and faster. 
MATT: So Resurrection takes an hour to cast. 
LAURA: Revivify is fast, but they would have to be dead for under a minute. 
LIAM: Mine is instantaneous. 
MATT: So you begin to prepare the Resurrection ritual. As you begin to set up the requirements for this ritual, the runes that grasp the core of the being that restores flesh, that restores color, that restores the anchor that the soul returns to, it's almost like the space in the skull resists it. 
LAURA: (Vex) It's not working? 
ASHLEY: It's not working. 
MARISHA: That's with the Transmuter's Stone? 
SAM: No. 
LAURA: No, that's with her ritual. 
LIAM: That's Pike. 
LAURA: Did that eat my diamond? 
ASHLEY: I am sorry, Vex. Ask your husband to get you more. 
SAM: (Veth) Caleb, do your thing. 
LIAM: All right, I'm going to try to see if my Transmuter's Stone will loosely fit into the crater in Mr. Greymoore's head and try to cast-- What is it? Raise Dead. 
MATT: As you place the stone within, and it doesn't quite fit snug by any means, but it fits inside the space. Now, you as a transmutation specialist, you envision it taking up as much space as it can within and finding connection and transmuting it to the best of your ability to the type of glass-like structure that you recall it being. But it's still not oddly finding purchase. There's something missing to this equation that you've tried to put together here. 
MARISHA: Did you say there were runes in there in the inside of Ashton's? 
MATT: It looks like the inside of a geode. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to look at the Bright Queen. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
ASHLEY: Give me your beacon. 
MATT: "Absolutely not." 
ASHLEY: Give me your beacon. 
MATT: "We're done here." 
MARISHA: Wait, wait, wait, wait. Look, you must know something. You must be able to help. Is Essek here? 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
TRAVIS: Who are you right now? 
MARISHA: (Laudna) I'm Laudna. 
TRAVIS: Oh, you were panicked. You kind of bled. 
MARISHA: I'm sorry. Sorry. 18 plus seven. What's 18 plus seven? I'm fucking blinking. 
SAM: 25. 
MARISHA: 25. 25. 
MATT: You do not see Essek anywhere nearby. You do see a somewhat shabby, bearded, familiar looking mage who is looking upon all this aghast. 
MARISHA: Yes hi, sorry. Do you have a potion? Do you have one of those dunamancy potions? Someone here must. Everyone in Exandria is here. There's got to be spare dunamancy. 
MATT: You see, he looks to the Bright Queen, looks to you, looks to Caleb, looks to all of you. Comes over and sits next to Caleb. And Caleb, you recognize this common image that your partner takes. 
LIAM: Do you carry anything on you? 
MATT: "I carry everything with me." He places his fingers over yours. Where the transmuter's stone crystal is, you watch as his fingers pressing against yours begin to conjure the basis of dunamantic script within the glass. As it does, you see flickers and flashes-- (whooshing) as the transmuter's stone seems to almost expand and then contract. For moments, you see the stone vanish and it's empty once more. Then you see shards of crystal operating outside and slowly reforming. In this brief little pocket, time has reversed. As the fingers press hard against yours to the point where the transmuter's stone is now gone, you think. It's like nothing had happened. But Essek's fingers are painfully pushing into yours. As they intertwine, sweat's dripping from his brow, and then he (grunting) pulls back and gets blasted away, his illusion dropping immediately. He's thrust about five feet back and the kaleidoscopic flesh begins to glitter on the inside of the head as the Raise Dead takes effect. 
ROBBIE: (gasps) Raise Dead? What does that do? 
SAM: But is he a zombie? 
LIAM: No. 
SAM: Oh okay. 
MATT: Your eyes flicker open. 
TALIESIN: Damn it, FCG. (grunting) 
ASHLEY: Hey. 
TALIESIN: Am I dead? Because if I am, this is really a disappointment. 
TRAVIS: See? 
LIAM: (Orym) No. 
TALIESIN: No? 
LIAM: You're okay. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
LIAM: You're okay. 
TALIESIN: I want to sleep for now. 
LIAM: You get to do that. 
TALIESIN: (exhausted sigh) 
SAM: We've been through this before. You have to call him Kingsley now. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Fuck right off, Sam. (laughter) (laughter) 
LAURA: (Jester) You'd make a really good pirate. 
TALIESIN: I hate the ocean. 
MARISHA: I look at Essek. 
LIAM: I look at the Bright Queen. 
MATT: The Bright Queen stands watching as Kryn soldiers now begin to move to encircle. 
TALIESIN: Caduceus is going to walk over and do two little taps of casting Heal twice. 
LAURA: (Jester) (offended noises) I was right here! 
TALIESIN: (Caduceus) Yeah, but you don't like doing that. 
SAM: Wow, Caduceus! 
TALIESIN: Tap. Tap. 
SAM: You're so good at that. 
LAURA: I already said I was going to do it. I couldn't help it he's already dead. 
TALIESIN: 40 hit points to-- 
MATT: To Ashton. 
TALIESIN: -- to Ashton and then, just for fun, I'm going to put up, while all of this is happening, little spirit guardians, so I can ignore the soldiers while we're doing this. So a bunch of little beetles are going to start flying around where we are. We're all fine. They're not going to bother any of you. 
MATT: Essek has gotten to his feet now. As the soldiers swirl in, he quickly flashes an incantation. Roll a d20 for me. 
MARISHA: Oh god. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god. 
MARISHA: Come on, Essek. 
LIAM: Caleb is Moving toward the Bright Queen, not threateningly, but within parlay distance. 
MATT: Yeah. 
LIAM: It's a nine. 
MATT: It's a nine. That's a failure on the Counterspell. 
MARISHA: In a good way? 
MATT: Meaning Essek is attempting to teleport away. One of the approaching mages attempts to Counterspell it. 
LIAM: Well, I'll flick that off with a Counterspell. 
MATT: Well okay, the Counterspell already failed. 
LIAM: Oh, it failed. 
MATT: That was the roll for the Counterspell. 
LIAM: Got it, got it, got it. 
MATT: So Essek (whooshing) vanishes. 
LAURA: (fake surprise) That was Essek?! Oh! 
TRAVIS: Nice. 
MATT: Make a deception check. (laughter) 
LAURA: Wait, hold on. Where's my dick dice? (laughter) 
LAURA: Oh, one. (laughter) 
LIAM: You're 30 feet within Orym. 
LAURA: Oh, fuck yes. Okay, hold on. With my bee dice. Three. (laughter) 
LAURA: But it goes up to a 10. 
MATT: The Bright Queen strikes a look and the soldiers look back for a order. 
LIAM: Oh, I don't know. 
TALIESIN: Okay, I was just curious. 
MATT: "At least we know the fugitive is in close circles." A smile comes across the Bright Queen's face. "We will have business in the future, but I'm glad to see that you are back. And nothing of value was lost." She turns around as the soldiers begin to fall into line before she looks towards you, and you. 
ASHLEY: What was that? 
MATT: With that, the chaos of Vasselheim is notable in the distance. Most of the people who are watching in the periphery begin to pull away and return to the town. But your friend has been saved. 
MARISHA: Ashton. You saved the gods. (laughs) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Or destroyed them, whichever way you want to look at it. 
TALIESIN: Oh god, did I piss off a five-headed dragon? 
TRAVIS: Yes! 
LAURA: Yeah, really did. 
LIAM: And it was epic. 
TALIESIN: Oh god, I told you all I loved you. 
LIAM: Haha, can't take it back. Fuck you. 
TALIESIN: I was not supposed to come back from that. 
LAURA: Too bad. Shit happens. 
MARISHA: Wait, Imogen. 
LAURA: What? Yeah, I know. 
MARISHA: It's still in there. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: What do we do? 
SAM: Does it feel like anything? 
MARISHA: I mean, if you release it, it'll just wander off, right? 
LAURA: It should. 
TALIESIN: We got you, no matter what. 
LIAM: Do we need to give any runners a head start? 
LAURA: None of them ever ran, I think all of them-- 
LIAM: Did they tell us? 
MATT: Mm-mm. You don't know. 
LAURA: Just kidding. Yeah, sure, give them a head start. 
MATT: But, it is pushing against its binds, and the voice of that child-like perception within you still feels hungry, and waking, and wanting out to feed. 
ROBBIE: We, like, really, really know it only wants to eat gods, right? 
TRAVIS: (wheeze laughs) 
LAURA: I wasn't lying. I really didn't see anything but the gods when I was, when I was inside of it. I guess... Did I see any of the Ruidusborn? I didn't, right? I only saw the lights of the gods. 
MATT: You saw the lights of the gods and you saw the pale red of the Ruidusborn, but they were just an awareness. 
LIAM: Those were buddy lights. 
LAURA: Those were buddy lights, and those were not foe lights. 
ASHLEY: Babies. 
ROBBIE: Okay, well, I'm not saying you're lying. 
LAURA: Oh, no. 
ROBBIE: I just think that, if that's what you saw then-- 
LAURA: That's what I saw. 
ROBBIE: -- it's probably okay. 
SAM: How do you get rid of it? Like, open your mouth? 
LAURA: Yeah, I think I try to force myself to throw up. No, I don't understand-- 
ASHLEY: Shoom. 
LAURA: (grunting) No, I think maybe I need to talk to it, I'm not sure. Maybe I need to fly up in the sky. Maybe I need to go up into the sky-- 
SAM: Okay. 
LAURA: -- and try to aim for outer space. 
SAM: Sure. 
ROBBIE: Aim what for outer space? 
LAURA: Aim my body out. 
ROBBIE: Aim your body out? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: You know what. 
LAURA: And then flip upside down and try to shoot it out, you know? 
ASHLEY: Birth it out. 
ROBBIE: Yeah! 
TALIESIN: Ow. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
SAM: Birth of Predathos in space? 
ROBBIE: It's cosmic shit. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: The cosmic shits. 
TRAVIS: Are there are tons of people still standing around? 
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Just like all the amassed-- 
MATT: Oh yeah, no, I mean, there's many army soldiers, bastions of Vasselheim, still remnants of the Bright Queen's army that are exiting, the Mighty Nein and Vox Machina are all present. 
LAURA: What about the Matron? 
MATT: She's not present. 
LAURA: She disappeared, too. They all just disappeared. 
ROBBIE: Just one last thought. The gods, Predathos, they traveled from somewhere to be here, right? If we set Predathos free into the cosmos, would they hunt down other gods on other worlds? 
LAURA: I'm sure. Some other beings. 
ROBBIE: Isn't that just passing off our problems to someone else? 
TRAVIS: You betcha. 
LIAM: I grab you by the hand. We all know it's coming out one way or another. 
LAURA: I'd rather allow it out instead of it ripping its way from me. 
MARISHA: I would really love for that to not happen, please. 
ROBBIE and ASHLEY: Sure. 
MATT: Sharp pain curls on the inside of your torso. 
LAURA: Yeah, I feel like I don't have a lot of time left. 
ROBBIE: Go, go, go. 
MARISHA: Can we-- find a moment of privacy? Can we go somewhere? 
LIAM: Top of the mountain. 
MARISHA: I don't know. Not maybe in the center of the town square. 
TRAVIS: Usually if you catch a tiger, you don't release it in the middle of the metroplex. 
LIAM: Maybe we take it up-- 
LAURA: Maybe I can fly up. Maybe I will-- 
LIAM: You got the stairs above us, anyway. 
SAM: You'll be alone. 
MARISHA: You could fly up, like up the stairs. 
LIAM: There's the-- 
LAURA: That would be fun. 
LIAM: We've never been up there. 
MARISHA: You can't go alone and we don't have the means to catch another terminal velocity falling body right now. 
SAM: Let's just walk up the stairs. 
MARISHA: Take the stairs. 
LAURA: Okay. Are we allowed to? Are people stopping us? 
SAM: I don't think anyone's going to stop Predathos. 
MATT: At the moment, most everyone's still stunned and trying to keep the populace in check. Some soldiers might try and step into your way, but as you assert your walk, they let you pass. They've all witnessed some odd collection of miracles today that they're still grasping with, let alone for the most pious, still grasping with this renewed absence in them. 
MARISHA: Let's walk with purpose, let's go. 
LIAM: In a low voice Caleb says to Imogen: Go, we'll handle this. I'm sure Jester can keep them occupied. 
LAURA: Jester (clicks tongue). 
MATT: As you begin to ascend the massive steps in the Heaven's Stair Mountain, other members of the Dawn Marshals and their various generals, high priests, fall in to follow, keeping most of the populace from wandering close to where you go, until eventually, the path thins to a very drifting hiking path, at which point, they begin to fall back in waves, watching from a distance. 
LIAM: I, Liam, have always wanted to go up here. (chuckling) 
MATT: Eventually, you come to the edge of this cragulous cliffside, this massive peak that overlooks all the surrounding timberlands. You can see the distant mountain ranges and the stretch of white snow, the clusters of forest, the atmospheric cloud front starting to try and push back in from the massive blast of divine transference. But above you, still probably the most wide-open blue sky Vasselheim has seen in a very long time. There beyond it, as you focus in, you can just faintly see the sparkle of distant stars. Lost beyond that great blue hue, an endless expanse of cosmos your mind and spirit could not even conceive. A sharp pain hits again. 
LAURA: (grunts) 
MARISHA: What can we do? What do we do to help you? 
LAURA: I don't know, I just... Hold my hand. 
MARISHA: I'll grip her hand tight. 
LAURA: Funny, the whole time we've been together, I've been dealing with voices on the outside. (chuckles) 
MARISHA: I, more than most, understand what you're going through. 
LAURA: Fearne. 
ASHLEY: We got you. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: You're going to be okay. You're going be okay. 
LAURA: I feel our tether and it almost starts pulling your energy into me. I look inward to the child. 
MATT: You feel that lightish being, that small primal alien presence within, curling from its slumber. It looks back at you. "I'm so hungry." 
LAURA: I know. There's nothing for you here. 
MATT: "Why?" 
LAURA: All your food went away. You've been gone so long. I'm sorry. I know. 
MATT: "(growling)" You feel its presence suddenly spread within you, piercing into your physical self. It's like it's trying to claw through and out and drag your very essence with it. The rest of you watch as suddenly Imogen's chest begins to tense and pull. Instinctually, purple lightning begins to arc off her body as she begins to lift up in the air. You watch her arms and chest and shoulders contort, her eyes go bright. (lightning whooshing) 
MARISHA: I keep a tight grip on her hand next to her. 
ASHLEY: Same, same. 
MATT: You feel it tearing you apart from within. What do you do? 
LAURA: Can I... Can I try to funnel my energy and allow it to escape? 
MATT: Go ahead and roll a charisma check for me. 
ASHLEY: Do you still have Enhance Ability on her? 
MATT: It's been under an hour. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: Okay, okay. 
SAM: Advantage. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
ASHLEY: Can I also do an additional Guidance? 
MATT: In this instance, I'll say probably not. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
MATT: This is pure-- But good on you for checking. 
LAURA: Okay. This is just a check, a charisma check. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: That is, I can do my math, 23. Is that right, 23? 
LIAM: I don't know what you're adding. 
LAURA: 24, 22. 
LIAM: 17 plus. 
SAM: 23, 24, 22. 
LAURA: 22. 
MATT: As you feel it clawing through your consciousness, as well as finding an escape through the physical pathways that connect your consciousness to the physical, you instead try and guide that exit point, as opposed to letting it rend in any direction to wherever it hopes to find the thinnest surface of resistance. Instead, you almost jingle the arcane keys to keep its attention where you want it to go. As opposed to physically pulling its way through, you begin to release it through the spaces that you know to be the least resistance. The rest of you watch as Imogen closes her eyes and seems to curl into a ball, as her focus goes inward, the energy around her (energy whooshing) like a massive plasma ball arcing out around all of you, arcing into you. You can feel it, it burns, it tingles, it doesn't quite damage, but you feel the very basis of this power granted to her and how dangerous it can be when unbridled, but you hold yourselves taut until eventually (gasping) her eyes and mouth open and you watch out of her ears, out of her eyes, her nose, her mouth, this black and red gaseous fume just (fume exploding) emanates outward, itself a flashing black volcanic storm of purple energy. As it begins to spill out of her, it begins to congeal and shift and you see claws. You see teal and purple glows pulsing within this ever-growing and spreading roiling storm of something not of this physical realm. Even what you took into you on Ruidus was mostly you changed, this, in its pure unleashed form, it seems to defy dimension in ways that you've come to understand. It seems to spread and entirely envelop the sky as much as it seems maybe just a few feet away. Depth seems to fold on itself. This entity seems to walk in its truest form between dimensions and you watch as it seems to spread, its endless consciousness flickering and looking everywhere it can. The fury of its flashing and spark suddenly coming to a cold, quiet sigh before it drifts off toward the stars for from whence it came, the darkness eventually giving way to blue. 
LAURA: (heavy exhale) (coughs) 
MARISHA: I grab my water skin, give her a nice cold cup of water, just like old times. Here. 
LAURA: I did just need to barf it up. 
SAM: That sound was really cool. I drew a picture. It's not of you barfing, but it's a nice picture. 
ASHLEY: Wow! 
LAURA: That's really nice, Braius. 
SAM: I thought you might like that. 
ASHLEY: That's beautiful. 
LIAM: So fast. 
LAURA: That's so beautiful. 
SAM: I mean, it was just a sketch. It's just a doodle, you know, no big deal. 
LAURA: Wow. 
LIAM: Wow. 
SAM: I got inspired. 
LAURA: (like Owen Wilson) Wow. 
LIAM: (like Owen Wilson) Wow. 
ASHLEY: (like Owen Wilson) Wow. 
LAURA: You're really talented. 
TALIESIN: Why aren't you doing this, as opposed to just killing people? Honestly, a lot and kind of randomly on occasion. 
ASHLEY: You should do one of those where you're on a street and someone can come up and you can like-- 
SAM: Kill them? 
ASHLEY: -- draw them. 
SAM: Oh. Draw them. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I see the problem now, that's fair. 
LIAM: How do you feel? 
MARISHA: I brush her hair back. 
LAURA: Hold my hair back. 
MARISHA: Uh-huh. 
LIAM: (croaking) 
MARISHA: Rub her back. 
LAURA: I feel great. I feel great. Yeah. Do I still have lightning titties? 
ASHLEY: I'll check. 
MATT: Your marks still remain. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: They're still there. 
LAURA: I've still got my lightning titties. 
MARISHA: "I'll check." 
SAM: Do you need me to check also? 
LAURA: No. 
MATT: The divine spark, the magical echo of the Rite of Catatheosis slowly begins to fade and the blue sky returns to the sunset that had been threatening to send Vasselheim into night. As that color begins to go, the distant clouded horizon breaks just enough to see the pale, faint light of Catha. On the other side, returned to its orbit, the pale, distant red hue of Ruidus, freed of what once its purpose, now to whatever its future may be. As you all gather here on the top, the Heaven's Stair, looking down upon the Dawn Cradle, we're going to go to break. (laughter) 
LIAM: Godspeed, little moon. 
TALIESIN: Goodnight, moon. 
LAURA: "Goodnight, moon." 
ASHLEY: Goodnight, stars. 
LAURA: Goodnight, gods. 
MATT: Well-- 
LIAM: Wherever you ares. (laughter) 
MATT: We're going to take a short break here. We'll be back here to see where the rest of this story takes us. Okay, we'll see you in a few minutes. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LIAM: Woo!

Break[]
MARISHA: That's just right! That's just right! 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
SAM: Power's out! 
MATT: Strong "band of the Titanic still playing." 
AIMEE: Yes! Sure does. (laughter) 
MATT: I love it. 
MARISHA: When in doubt, we will D&D! (laughter) 
LAURA: -- glass! 
MATT: Who's toasting? 
MARISHA: Go. You are. 
ALL: You are! (laughter) 
MATT: But no, I love you all so much. So grateful that you would ever spend the time to do this silly stuff with us and onto many wild years of weird adventures to come. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
AABRIA: To Exandria! (cheering) 
MARISHA: Can I get everyone's attention, please? I'm really sorry. 
AABRIA: Oh shit! 
MARISHA: The county of Los Angeles has declared a state of emergency. 
ALL: Oh! 
MARISHA: And we cannot, in good conscious, continue to shoot here. (dramatic music) 
TRAVIS: We're not going to try and squeeze in stuff, and then try and get out. Fuck that. We're not going to mess, right. 
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. This sucks big time. We've been running the set off of a generator off back and I want to make sure that our amazing Nate and other people who have to shut down the generator don't get electrocuted by falling power lines. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: And we will let you guys know when we can reschedule and the good news is, if you're able to come back out, we'll be jumping right into it. 
AABRIA: Hey, all good. Feel less bad. 
(dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) 
ASHLEY: Oh, hello there, friends. We just wanted to thank you from everybody here at CR for your patience while we take care of our family, and our friends, and our cast, and our crew, with everything that's been going on during this time and we've been trying everything we can to bring back our beautiful city. So Critical Role Foundation is currently raising funds for three incredible organizations: the California Community Wildfire Recovery Fund, the Latino Community Foundation, and the Los Angeles Fire Department Foundation. If you could donate, anything helps. It would mean the world. Head to criticalrolefoundation.org. We love you. (kisses) 
♪ (peppy music) ♪ ♪ (adventurous music) ♪ - It's hard to remember. Breathe deeply. Chichiue! Tell me about your nightmare. There is evil at work in our homeland. Greedy lords who bring war. He comes. Oda Nobunaga... Iga is under attack! -This blade, it cannot be taken. -What? Now's the time. These people don't care about us. Blood for blood. This land will soon be unified by my vision. Is that tyranny? I ride with you. My whole life, I have been caught on a wind blown across the world. I see potential in this man. The black soldier is not one of us. Send him back to wherever he belongs. He may become a legend... or he may die! Duel me! No. Duels belong in the old world. This is the way forward. You slaughtered innocents! The blade! It is you. You are a part of something bigger than this war. Our fates are connected. We have all seen darkness. Some have been that darkness. Because you believe in my cause, we have come together despite it all. To bring change. To bring light. MARCH 20 PRE-ORDER TO GET UPCOMING EXPANSION AND BONUS QUEST 
(mysterious music) KLAUS: In play, it felt so good. MOHAMAD: Everybody's engaged at the same time. ALISON: The Hope and the Fear mechanics are a wild role-playing ride. MATT: The game is called Daggerheart, our own fantasy tabletop RPG we've been developing. It's a unique 2d12 dice rolling system that ensures that every roll of the game has some sort of impact on the game itself. DANI: It really fosters that collaborative role-play aspect. DARIUSH: Character building lets you do your own thing and organically be like, "Actually, I'll take a little of this, a little of that." CAI: You can be an unlikely combination of things. The Hope and Fear mechanics to me really feel more like the score of a good film. NATE: Mounting fear, just added a different layer of tension to the game. HANNA: The tactileness is really exciting for me. I just feel very represented in this game. EVAN: I would absolutely play again. TRAVIS: Daggerheart is fun as hell to play. RICH: I absolutely love Daggerheart. MATT: It's going to be something real special and it's just the beginning. ASHLEY: Oh no, oh no, oh no. MATT: Complete story, front to back. Look forward to trilogy. BLAINE: That's it? Wow, good luck, next storyteller, my god.  
(cheerful music)  (mysterious music)
Gavain steels himself (sword clanking) and runs straight towards the mummy. As Gavain approaches, the mummy lifts one rotted hand and sand explodes forward. Gavain, make a constitution saving throw. Natural one. Gavain is severely blinded. (monster grunts) Sand? Where was there sand? Farah dashes 15 feet moving around the mummy to get a better look at the stone inside the sarcophagus. Roll an arcana check. Natural one. You are unable to discern-- 
LAURA: Hey Critters! Laura Bailey here to guide you through what's new in the Critical Role shop. Could anything be more perfect? Go ahead, darling. Treat yourself. Oh my gosh, it's so amazing. Style should never be a dump stat, Darling. Look at this. Isn't it fashion? So much fashion happening here. Check it out. Look. It has pockets. Oooh, so comfy cozy. It's so cute. I can't handle it. And hey, if you want, you could head over to the Critical Role shop right now. 
(epic music) (mischievous music) (typewriter clacking) (peaceful music) 
(posh orchestral music) 
TALIESIN: (British accent) This week on "Critical Roadshow," we've traveled to one of several sets in the Critical Role studios. This particular set is where "4-Sided Dive" is filmed, along with other famed productions, such as that one Critmas Promo, that other Critmas Promo, as well as several other promos. We've brought in our finest antiques dealer to evaluate and appraise items that have been brought in from every corner of the building. We go now to our first item. 
MATT: As I understand, there's an interesting story about how you came into possession of these items. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, so I was playing a game of street dice in Macau, and the stakes got pretty high, I almost lost some fingers, but I didn't. And, you know, I came out on top. Won a Soviet submarine. No big deal. 
MATT: This is a rare find. These keys, user manual, and, most importantly, signal beacon, are from the Shchuka-class Project 671RTM. And while they had a payload of Zircon hypersonic and Onik anti-ship missiles, they were never able to provide an exclusive Discord, pre-sales for live events, or 10% off merchandise. I'd appraise a functional military sub of this era at about $400,000,000. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! It is docked in Vladivostok right now, but I'm going to go pick it up and bring it back here. No problem. Yes! 
MATT: Truly a rare find. So what do we have here? 
JARED: Well, I heard that you're giving away tons of cash for people who bring in cool stuff, so I brought this. 
MATT: Is that a photo of Kevin Beacon? 
JARED: I'm sorry, did you say Kevin Bacon or Kevin Beacon? 
MATT: Wonderful actor. Classic photo and signed. However, unlike a Beacon membership, it does not provide instant access to all new content. So, I'd estimate this between $6 to $7. 
JARED: That's it? Okay, fine. I'll take the money. 
MATT: Oh, I don't buy any of the items. I just estimate their value. 
JARED: And you get paid for this? 
MATT: Yeah. 
JARED: Wow. I need to become a voice actor. 
MATT: Truly a rare find. Now, this is a truly exciting discovery. 
TRAVIS: (sad and offended noise) 
MATT: This beacon, lettuce, and tomato sandwich is exquisitely crafted, beautifully designed. While you can enjoy a meal like this for a few minutes, a Beacon membership unlocks thousands of hours of entertainment, now available on desktop and mobile. 
TRAVIS: I'm trying to eat my lunch. 
MATT: Truly a rare find. 
TRAVIS: (intimidatingly chews) 
MATT: And what do we have here? 
MARISHA: Yeah, you said you needed stuff with the word "beacon" on it, so, I found this prop from an old Beacon promo. 
MATT: Ah, yes. Beacon promos are great and well-written content. But Beacon also has a number of original series such as "Re-Slayers Take," "Critical Role Cooldown," and "Crit Role Abridged," as well as more to come, all available when you have membership to Beacon. I'd value this record at 75 cents. 
MARISHA: Okay. I think you can dial it back, sweetheart. 
MATT: Truly a rare find. And what did you bring? 
SAM: What? No, I didn't. I'm looking for Jared. He took my signed Kevin Bacon picture? I signed it myself. Jared, no? Not ringing a bell? He's our Junior Lorekeeper. Jared. Jared, I think. Maybe. I'm gonna say, Jared. 
MATT: Truly a rare find. Now, this may be the find of the day, a Beacon membership. (chuckles) May I hold it? 
LAURA: Yeah. Just be careful. 
MATT: Of course. Of course. (sighs happily) The craftsmanship, the design, the understated beauty! A Beacon membership is only $5.99 a month, but is absolutely priceless. Truly irreplaceable-- (glass shattering) 
LAURA: Dude. 
TALIESIN: Well, that was most interesting. But please do become a Beacon member because the poor sap who wrote this has added this text to the teleprompter to say that they will get sacked if this ad doesn't do well. The end. The end? Who writes "The End" at the end of a teleprompter feed? Don't let whoever did that touch the teleprompter ever again. Worst writing ever. God! Jeez. ♪ (folksy guitar and piano) ♪ ♪ Omar's on his way to me ♪ ♪ (to me, to me, to me) ♪ ♪ He's on his way to you ♪ ♪ (to you, to you to you) ♪ ♪ Ay yo, so fluffy ♪ ♪ Ay yo, so cuddly ♪ ♪ I hope he gets here soon ♪ 

Part II[]
MATT: And welcome back. Of course, up top, you'll notice it's a little different from where we left off. If you saw the video at break, this was shot in chunks because halfway through our actual finale filming, we had the winds and fire hit and a state of emergency, and we had to stop. So we're picking this up a ways after when it's safe and everyone can reconvene. So, nevertheless, we come in to a dark, shadowy realm. A place where distant glimmers of floating golden threads drift from an invisible wind. There, amongst and a little bit above the ever-undulating flow of deep crimson that marks this platformed liminal space, a figure suddenly arrives in a swirling swath of black feathers. Vax'ildan, if I could have you return to the table, please. The brief gift filled with more distant than maybe you were hoping for in your night in Whitestone was both filling and hard, slipping away faster than you had hoped, both in time and in, maybe, brief connection. Before you could even truly grasp what that could be or could have been, here you are, plucked from it, your eyes refocusing in the familiar dark plane of your matron. There, as your cloak unfurls and falls to a calm stance, you look up to the familiar white porcelain mask of the Matron of Ravens. "Welcome back." 
LIAM: (Vax) I am ever at your call. 
MATT: "Indeed. Times are mutable as of late, more so than perhaps I could have seen. But maybe that's the point. For even the Matron herself may have a thread of her own beyond her vision. There was always a wake that I could not peer past, and in this moment, I stand at the top of that wall and look down into a future of possibility, frightful and exciting." She raises a hand and emerging from the shadow to your right, another figure, one you've had a distant awareness of, but one of unexpected arrival here in the Matron's realm. In a familiar flutter of dark feathers, you see a pale lagomorph in dark armors. Morrighan, if you wouldn't mind coming to the table, please. Morrighan, you who were taken as a chosen of the Matron in recent times here in the crux of this great, terrible, intense climb to an unknown answer. You were brought to the front lines and then pulled aside, a new, unclear path of guidance by the goddess of death and transition. Here in the midst of its throes and the end of the conflict that you were so hoping to be present and part of, you are plucked and brought here. To your side, you see, truly for the first time in person, a figure you've heard quite a bit about: The champion of the Matron, Vax'ildan. 
ERICA: Wow. Vax'ildan. I'm Morrighan. It's nice to meet you. 
LIAM: I have seen you from afar. 
ERICA: I've seen you as well. You've been like a fine mist marking ahead of my path for the last few weeks. 
LIAM: I think that Vax has spent what feels like this amorphous amount of time, which is stretched and hard to really calculate the length of. All that time in this liminal space, it has been the Matron and he, and he's not sure if it is the tumult (chuckles) back on Exandria or some other reason he cannot ken that for the first time the Matron has brought another here. But he's learned it's better to listen rather than ask aimless questions. 
MATT: In this moment of tense, perhaps even mildly confused eye contact, you both feel a shift, and as you glance back towards the Matron, her form encompassing the majority of the space of your vision, she is immense. This is her realm, this is her, and in that brief moment of perspective, you feel so small, but still embraced, still protected like children held in the arms of a mother. As you hear her voice now echo through your minds, through your very souls, "Today is a strange day, but one that will keep me and the rest of the gods of Exandria safe. For we step beyond a boundary we had not thought possible, though some of us had briefly walked it once before. Predathos is loose. The God-eater seeks our end. So we will no longer be gods. With the aid of some clever mortal upstarts, I've reforged the Rite of Ascension. In this singular, carefully stretched moment of time before I cross that threshold, we've all agreed to join the cycle of mortal rebirth and abscond from the scent of the Red End." 
ERICA: Yeah, but will you be okay? Are you going to be okay? 
MATT: "I believe so. Though for a time, it shall be different. With this rite, I have bound us to this realm of Exandria, not unlike how the Kryn's Luxon binds their souls to their great relic. And so in but a moment, we will be gone, reborn somewhere in this world." 
ERICA: Where will I find you? You'll need us at your side at all times. You're going to be very vulnerable. 
MATT: "Well, the role of the champion has never been more important to the sanctity and future of Exandria. Once only mantles granted in times of crisis, now a role eternally entwined with the coming age. Each piece of ourselves carved away and given autonomy, a fragment of us that can stay behind." 
LIAM: When you are gone, the wheel of life and death will continue to turn? 
MATT: Her arm reaches out over Morrighan and grasps her. "Indeed. You and the rest that will join you." As her hands clasp over you, you feel this cold shake into your very person, this uncontrollable shutter as the darkness completely takes you in, but it's welcoming as much as it is frightening, like a momentary return to a womb you'd forgotten. You see a flash behind your closed eyelids of the great golden skein of fate. For a brief moment, you see across hundreds of thousands of gossamer threads. You see beyond the true realm of death and you feel the pain, the peace, the welcoming joy of every moment's end. Then as her fingers pull back, you are the same, but different. You can feel your heartbeat slow. You feel the leathers you wore themselves now given exaggeration and purpose as the Matron says, "Where once there was one, there is now two." She places you back onto the ground. "And there may be more to come. You are now the guardians of our realm and our faith while we are gone, while we are born and grow, until you find us, each and every cycle." 
ERICA: I think Morrighan is so excited to have a clear direction finally after all this time, weeks. 
MATT: (laughs) 
ERICA: It's been stop, start, stop, start, and I've been held back by the Matron and I didn't really understand why. I thought it was some lack that I had on my end, that I wasn't strong enough, you know? This is all I want. I promise I will find you and I will defend you with my life. 
MATT: "You are now joined with Vax'ildan as warden to my realm." 
ERICA: Like a real champion. 
MATT: (good-naturedly) "Mm." 
ERICA: (laughs) Wow. 
MATT: "A shared mantle to escort the souls of those who pass through it. You are to endure long past your years, age suspended within feather and shadow. For many, you will be fear. For many, you will be hope. For many more, you will be a peaceful end. You will both be my face when I cannot be." She pulls her mask free, revealing the beautiful if sorrowful human face that she once wore from her mortal days, one you've not witnessed and one you've not witnessed in some time. You can see it wet with streaks of black tears. 
LIAM: I've grown very accustomed to our time here. I'm wondering what to do to pass the time in your absence. 
MATT: "Vax'ildan, my sweet shadow." She steps forward, and as she steps, her full size and scale seems to almost shift in a blink until she is your size, maybe even a little shorter. Then she reaches up and her long, dark fingers curl across your cheek and touch the edge of your ear. Her face does not smile, but you feel it. "You are tasked to walk Exandria as my symbol, to seek me out wherever and however I may return, and aid in restoring the skein of fate in my mortal ascendance. But now you are not alone, sweet champion, and the others of our faith will also be at your beck and call. Once I am found, may we all greet this new age with renewed perspective and perhaps some clarity on what fate now demands of us all." 
ERICA: How will I know it's you? You could come back as anyone? 
MATT: "Theoretically." 
ERICA: Like a dog or a monkey? 
MATT: "(laughs)" 
ERICA: Anything? How will I know? 
MATT: "I believe we are bound to the mortal races that we ourselves have been shepherding. But there may be a few abnormalities, given the short time I had to construct this." It's odd to hear a slight chuckle creep from her grin, a grin that, once again, is felt but not seen on her face. "(chuckles) I guess we shall see." 
LIAM: You are at peace with this change? 
MATT: "I am. I would be lying if I didn't express elements of my mortal life that I've grown to miss, while also excited to see those who came before me to truly understand the beauty of that which they have protected, manipulated, and ultimately shepherded all this time. I dare say I might be scared and exhilarated." 
LIAM: The threads will hold? 
MATT: "They have to. (deeper) They have to," and her voice rings and echoes through the chamber. As her voice rings out, you hear this resonant vibration of hundreds, thousands of these strings vibrating like some sort of an odd, discordant instrument before it all comes to silence once more. (normal tone) "You have been so loyal, sweet raven, given so much as the paths of faith have demanded of you. But now, you do not walk alone. As you search for me, you will set foot across familiar and unfamiliar lands in your realm. I wish that you would allow your burdens to be carried, and I wish you to take some time through this new, strange age to enjoy the fruits of your labor." 
LIAM: She watches that sink in. I hope you will afford yourself the same in your next life. 
MATT: "We shall see. Whatever it brings, the passions, the joys, the sadness, the pain, I want it all. And much of it I deserve." 
LIAM: I still have faith in all you've safeguarded all this time. We have much to do. 
ERICA: Yes. 
MATT: She steps forward and places her hand on your chest and you feel this warmth surge through your torso. Just a little wave of (warmth expanding). You watch the faintest bit of color returns to the pale cheeks of Vax'ildan. You feel what was long a still and silent heartbeat (heartbeat) beat for the first time in decades. "Take a fragment of your life back. There is more than your duty now. You've shown me your true, loyal self. But you are loyal to many and I've held you as my own greedily for too long." 
LIAM: His face holds stoic, but his eyes glisten for the first time in many an age. 
MATT: "Come find me. In the times where you need to rest, where you need to lean, go to them. Go to her." 
ERICA: Listen, I know we don't know each other very well, but I find myself very unencumbered and very hungry for just about anything, honestly. So I can help you. 
LIAM: I think we're going to get along well. 
ERICA: I think so, too. I think we'll be friends. 
MATT: "My sweet champions, I'll see you again." In this moment, it's almost like you go to open your mouth and everything's frozen. This stillness as she steps back into the shadow. (rapid whooshing) Darkness takes you both. Now, if I could have you both please leave the table. 
ERICA: Yes. 
MATT: If we can bring Deanna in here, if you don't mind. Thank you both. 
MATT: There she is. 
AABRIA: Hi. 
MATT: Hey. 
AABRIA: I got lost on the way in. 
MATT: That happens. No worries. (laughs) 
AABRIA: Hi. 
MATT: Hi. So, Deanna. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
MATT: In the chaos of recent times, you and FRIDA, trekking through the lengths and breadths of what you have access to in Vasselheim and beyond to try and make sense and offer what aid as you can to this ever-growing climax of tension, fear, and conflict it is here in the middle of Vasselheim, that you amongst many witnessed something that none expected, but the Matron stepping here and the shattering of the Divine Gate. In moments of absolute, still panic that is palpable across the population, light takes your vision and you feel yourself plucked and pulled to a realm, a familiar, bright realm of warm light, as this brief moment seems to pull. And there, the flickering burning bright visage of the Dawnfather upon his throne surrounded by endless starlight leans forward, the welcome heat washing over you as he leans in. You feel that paternal distance fade and the warmth wash over you. (Dawnfather) "Deanna." 
AABRIA: Are you okay? I know, I know I'm supposed to be mad, and I, we didn't leave on great terms. But are you okay? 
MATT: "We are all fine." 
AABRIA: That's good. 
MATT: "We have discussed and agreed to a unique means of ending all of this sorrow." 
AABRIA: What do you mean ending? 
MATT: "We are to join you in the cycle of mortality and leave Predathos to starve in the stars where it belongs. But as such--" 
AABRIA: Oh. 
MATT: "-- we will be leaving you for a time. I will be leaving you. But we will be back in faces you may not recognize. There will be a time in which the world will be without our guidance." 
AABRIA: I want to step forward and close the distance between us. There's-- There's something about him that always has commanded such distance and reverence in that looking up and looking away. But if he's going to reclaim or claim for the first time mortality and what that means, I think I don't want him to feel alone while he does it. 
MATT: You step towards him and the heat is intense. At a certain threshold, that distance is given physicality, even in this prayer-like vision space. You push through it, and where the pain would begin to take over, you notice there is no ignition. There's just a burning sensation that becomes a renewed warmth, like a hot spring. As you look at your hand and look back at what was this massive armored figure, you see maybe a seven-foot figure of burning head standing there before you. The heavy sound of metals clacking onto the ground as armor falls away, leaving there standing slightly less oppressively bright, but a burning figure in simple robes looking at you, head slightly cocked with confusion. 
AABRIA: Yeah, come here. Bring it in. Come on, all the way down. You could've made me tall. It's your vision. 
MATT: The Dawnfather steps forward and kneels down, placing his arms around you. It is that unique overlapping of a sensation of heat that should hurt, but it just feels comforting. You feel the flicker of the flame and the intense vibration of the energy that he emits as the guardian of light and life and day. In this moment, you hear him sigh into your ear. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
MATT: "I'm sorry for my distance." 
AABRIA: Me too. I don't blame you for any of it. Oh, this is weird. There's something about being a parent. You just try to make the best choices you can for your family. I don't know what you've been through or how long it's been, but I do know something about having to start over and how scary that can be. But you're going to be okay. I don't even know if you need comforting. Maybe I just need to hear that for me, too. We're going to be okay. 
MATT: "I know we are." 
AABRIA: Are you scared? You don't have to tell me. 
MATT: "I don't know what I'm feeling. Maybe I've never given myself a moment of self reflection." 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
MATT: "It's regret, it's pride, it's concern. It's... It's defeat, it's excitement. Is this what it's like to be mortal, I suppose?" 
AABRIA: It is. It's a lot of things all the time, and it's so much to manage. Can I give you a little advice? 
MATT: "Please." 
AABRIA: Find people. All of this can be too much. But if you have people, it's all worth it. All of the pain and the fear and the joy and the love. Sometimes it's easy to forget, but it's everywhere in this world you built, that you and your family built. I don't know if-- I don't know if I've ever thanked you for that. Thank you for all of this. You did a really good job. I want to stroke his hair like I'm comforting one of my kids. 
MATT: "Like any parent, we're just trying to do our best." 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
MATT: "Mistakes and all." 
AABRIA: Our mistakes are never what define us. They're what we do next. I was very cruel to you when I asked you if you were worth saving. You can't save everyone, but everyone is worth saving. 
MATT: "I remember this feeling. I remember it now. It has been a time." You feel him start to diminish and the light get darker. 
AABRIA: I want to reach out and grab. There's this weird, desperate burst. One more thing, and you can say no. Where will you be-- Where will you come back to? Where will you be born? 
MATT: "I have no idea. And that's exciting." 
AABRIA: Okay. 
MATT: "But perhaps you or somebody else might find me." The light gets darker, and darker still. Through the near blinding light as it begins to grow dimmer and dimmer as he begins to drift into shadow like a candle slowly going out, you can see that bewildered smile on his face. "Perhaps we meet again." 
AABRIA: I'm sure of it. 
MATT: (soft whoosh) The shadow takes your space. As you come back to your perspective here at the darkest point of sunset cresting into night now amongst the streets of Vasselheim once more, looking around you, you see most everyone else is also shaking out of a point of reverie. You almost-- No, you realize in this moment that this vision you had likely was not just yours, but likely everyone of a modicum of faith and connection likely had their goodbye. As everyone around blinks, tears on their face, some of them looking confused, others sorrowful and openly weeping in the streets. It is the thick chaos of the street around you is brimming and building with people who weren't possibly privy to these visions, who lacked a connection to the gods or those who are still making their own sense of it. You don't know. But it is now erupting before a hush falls. Someone points in the sky, and there you see the entirety of the cosmic skyscape itself, a spread of incredible fractal runes, divine magics spread and layered in a way that is on a scale impossible to conceive. And you watch it shatter and break. That's when you truly feel the absence of divinity on Exandria. A small, dark shape plummet from the sky. It's at this moment you also realize the other person next to you that's been witnessing all this, your companion, FRIDA. FRIDA, if you could please come to the table. [offscreen excitement] 
AABRIA: FRIDA? FRIDA? What's that? Can you tell? 
CHRISTIAN: I don't know. Does that mean our friends were successful? 
MATT: Make a perception check for me. 
CHRISTIAN: Oh god. 
AABRIA: Can I provide them the help action? 
MATT: Sure. 
AABRIA: Squint! 
MATT and AABRIA: (laugh) 
CHRISTIAN: 17. 
MATT: 17? Glancing up, you see what looks like a humanoid shape that's plummeting from the sky and it's being carried by the winds off to the edge. You're not sure what it might be until the moment that you see a large hammer tumbling with it. You focus in a little more, your Aeormaton senses clicking in and trying to take out more details. 
AABRIA: Zoom, enhance. 
MATT: (laughs) 
AABRIA: Zoom, enhance. 
MATT and AABRIA: (laugh) 
MATT: This slight faint trail of smoke drifting off of the tumbling unconscious body of Ashton. 
CHRISTIAN: We met him with the hammer and the skull. 
AABRIA: Ashford? 
CHRISTIAN: Ashford. 
AABRIA: That's Ashford?! 
CHRISTIAN: Ashford. 
AABRIA: I take off. 
MATT and AABRIA: (laugh) 
MATT: You begin pushing through the crowd. You begin to dart and push through. 
AABRIA: Move, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I know we're all having sort of god crises. They're gone, it's fine. Excuse me! 
MATT: It is an intense, ever crowded bit of chaos as people are holding onto each other. Bastions are trying to keep order. Even those of the highest priesthoods and clerical levels of the, you know, the great Dawn Marshalls you can see themselves are head in hands trying to conceive the immensity of what has just happened. An entire city built on the faith of this entire world since history written, suddenly understanding that everything they've built this city around is gone. Before you can push past and get to the edge of the city, people are pointing and talking and whispering about, "He's okay, it's okay." You go over to where you think Ashton may have fallen and he's not there anymore. Though people have swarmed in and are starting to have conversations and talk about, "Is that the one that saved us?" "I thought he was dead." "He came back to life." "Oh my god." 
AABRIA: Excuse me. I'm going to pick whoever looks like they have a little bit more information than everyone else. Excuse me! 
MATT: You see this older grandmotherly figure with a heavy coat on that's in the process of, "I looked in his face. He had a strange looking glowing marble in the side of his skull." 
AABRIA: Yes, yes. His name is Ashford. Where did he go? 
MATT: "Ashford? Ashford?" 
AABRIA: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: "I don't know Ashford. But this strange looking rock man and his companions, they were given an escort by all the great bastions and they went up the side of the Heaven's Stair." 
AABRIA: Oh, thank you, thank you. Wow, that was dramatic. You're lovely. Where'd you get your coat? You're so sweet. 
MATT: "I knitted this myself." 
AABRIA: Oh my god! Help. I want to stay and do this more. 
CHRISTIAN: Can I see if I can sense Chetney? If I can smell him? 
MATT: Make a perception check for me. With advantage. 
CHRISTIAN: Using Liam's dice. I love you, I'm sorry. (laughter) 
CHRISTIAN: 19. 
AABRIA: Oh! Go off, dice. 
MATT: 19. You pick him up, and Chetney has a very particular scent, you would know. 
AABRIA: (proud noise) (laughter) 
MATT: It is faint, but glancing up towards the mountain and what she had said, the general path goes that way, and you can see where folks have pushed apart and where a crowd is, and you can see in the distance along the outer edge of this climbing mountain, a number of figures that are giving an escort partway up. Before eventually the escort stops and the troop of Bells Hells are climbing up towards the peak of the mountain. 
CHRISTIAN: Deanna. 
AABRIA: Let's go, come on! 
CHRISTIAN: Okay. 
AABRIA: Yeah. I'm just going to climb up you. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah. 
AABRIA: You go faster! Go! 
CHRISTIAN: She climbs up and they hesitate to move. There's a sense of foreboding here. I know what I'm going to walk into and just a second-- 
AABRIA: I'm sorry. 
CHRISTIAN: No-- 
AABRIA: I didn't even think about it. 
CHRISTIAN: It's okay. 
AABRIA: Are you? 
CHRISTIAN: It's okay. 
AABRIA: Is it? 
CHRISTIAN: I don't know. 
AABRIA: We can take a minute. They'll be there. 
CHRISTIAN: No, we should go to them. We should go to them. 
AABRIA: You can have a moment for you. We've been running, trying to track down information that could help them. It hasn't been a lot of time. We can spend another minute. I love you. 
CHRISTIAN: I love you. 
AABRIA: And I don't know what you're going through, but I'm sorry. 
CHRISTIAN: (sighs) Okay, let's go. 
MATT: The two of you backtrack a bit towards the core of the city looking for the base of the stairway that rides up the outer edge of the Heaven's Stair Mountain towards the Platinum Sanctuary. Guards are holding it at bay, and you see a number of the armored bastions approach and put shields and spears in your way. "You're not allowed to approach the Platinum Sanctuary. Please go along with the rest of the crowds." 
AABRIA: I reach towards my divine magic. Is it still there? 
MATT: It's still present, it feels. 
AABRIA: Sweet. Just so you know, I had a really short communion with the Dawnfather, and I feel like we're in a much better place now and I'm gonna snap my attention to this guard. And I want my eyes and mouth to glow like the sun and say: You're going to go ahead and move now! 
MATT: (laughs) Make an intimidation check for me with advantage. 
AABRIA: Yay! 
MATT: (laughs) 
AABRIA: (cackles) Natural 20. 
MATT: Yeah! (laughs) 
AABRIA: I did not think that was going to work. 
MATT: As the light beams out of every head-focused orifice, the nostrils, ears, all the-- 
AABRIA: Lower, you're just seeing it reflected through armor. 
MATT: The surrounding bastions all take a step back and look at each other, and one of them you see that's wearing the symbol of the Dawnfather around their armored breastplate goes, "Let her through, let her through." And they all step back and let you all begin to pass. As you begin to clamber up the side of the mountain the last bit of sunlight beginning to fade as night begins to take over. It is a long climb up the side of this mountain and there is a moment-- 
AABRIA: I'm out of breath, I'm out of breath for no reason. (laughter) 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah. 
AABRIA: Just hyperventilating on you like: You're doing great! 
MATT: Yep. Holding Deanna on your shoulders, trekking up. The stairway is mostly empty past a certain point. The bastions begin to fall thin until it's just the two of you. Primarily you. 
AABRIA: (laughs) 
MATT: You're trekking up this dark staircase, up to the winding path towards the top, and then there's this, for lack of a better term, like an energy in the air, like that feeling like lightning's about to strike, where everyone just stops and you find yourself, your pace coming to a halt for reasons you can't explain. Something atmospheric, something seismic is about to happen, and instinctually you both glance up towards the peak of the mountain that you are only part way up. (air whooshes) You watch as an endless expanding cavalcade of dark red, purple, and black cloud-like energy seems to just spray out into the sky, consuming an entire portion of the darkened cosmic expanse above you. You watch as it roils and twists and seems to almost scream silently up towards the stars. You can't even fathom the scale and size of it as it begins to spread until eventually that roiling mass begins to grow darker and more distant until eventually you just see that black spot in the sky where no stars are visible and one-by-one, they begin to return. 
AABRIA: FRIDA. FRIDA, is this another one of those Applebee's SoulCycles? 
CHRISTIAN: It might be. I really hope this means they won. 
AABRIA: It's got to be, right? They have to. 
MATT: You continue up the stairs, just cresting on the horizon of the mountain just as a troop of familiar figures are stepping away from the edge. Can I have the rest of Bells Hells at the table, please? 
AABRIA and CHRISTIAN: Oh. 
AABRIA: We're in people's seats. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah, where do I sit? 
AABRIA: Marisha will be in my lap, I guess. 
MATT: I believe we have additional chairs here that we can mess with. 
AABRIA: I took your chair. I sorry. 
LAURA: Take it. 
AABRIA: Just be here. 
MARISHA: Hey, you earned this. 
AABRIA: Ooh! 
MARISHA: Oh! 
AABRIA: Hold on, I do prefer this. (laughter) 
AABRIA: Unfortunately, I enjoy it. 
MARISHA: Prefer this? 
AABRIA: Sorry. Your stuff. 
LAURA: Yeah, you're good. 
AABRIA: I don't know how-- 
MARISHA: Such a cool tee. 
AABRIA: -- to think smaller thoughts. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's a problem we have. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
LIAM: I'll go on an angle. 
ROBBIE: Oh, you get the tall pillow. 
MARISHA: Why-- 
ROBBIE: Get the tall pillow. 
AABRIA: There's so many people! Okay. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: We've done it before. 
AABRIA: This is so fun. 
ROBBIE: Sorry, I'm broad like a house. 
AABRIA: You think we're smushing more? I didn't do enough Ozempic for this. 
MARISHA: I know. 
AABRIA: This is as small as I get. (laughter) 
SAM: His camera's still on. 
MARISHA: This is every DM's nightmare right now, a table of 10. 
TRAVIS: We all want to play. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. Hi, Matt! 
MATT: I've been here before and I'll be here again. 
ROBBIE: Roll initiative. [heavy clunk] 
AABRIA: Why is that die so fucking big? 
MATT: Bells Hells. (laughter) 
MATT: In the expression of release that comes watching the terror of Predathos, the Red End, vanish into the star-filled sky above. And the first true communal breath you all take in its absence, your eyes meet, and before a word can be said, you hear-- 
AABRIA: Chetney! 
MARISHA: (startled noise) (laughter) 
ASHLEY: What--? 
MARISHA: Is it the gods? The gods are dead. They're dead? 
AABRIA: Chetney! 
ASHLEY: They're calling your name, Chet! 
TRAVIS: Who is? 
ASHLEY: I don't know. 
CHRISTIAN: Mr. Pock O'Pea! 
ASHLEY and LAURA: (gasp) 
TRAVIS: FRIDA! 
LIAM: Oh my gosh. 
LAURA: Deanna. 
AABRIA: I'm on-- Hi. 
CHRISTIAN: It's good to see you all. 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
AABRIA: Hello, hi. 
TRAVIS: Oh god. 
AABRIA: I'm their hat. 
MARISHA: Sorry, our eyes had to adjust a little bit. It was blinding light everywhere. 
AABRIA: Yeah, what happened? What was that? Are you guys all okay? Were you dying? 
CHRISTIAN: Was that you falling? 
LIAM: It's a lot to unpack. 
TALIESIN: I wasn't there. 
CHRISTIAN: Your head, it's different. 
TALIESIN: It's different. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah. It looks good. 
TALIESIN: I haven't actually seen it yet. 
CHRISTIAN: Do you want to? 
TALIESIN: Sure. 
CHRISTIAN: I buff my forehead. (laughter) 
AABRIA: I give a little extra lighting, courtesy of the Dawnfather. 
MATT: So the portion of your head looks, at first glance, unchanged. 
TALIESIN: So, yeah, if I can throw of it. So there seems to be new cracking, obviously, but it has not been filled and finished with the gold yet and it's not the same rough-poured glass necessarily, it's a little smoother, it's a little darker, and it's got more of a sense of depth, like looking into a telescope. It just seems to go on and on forever and in the center of it is, instead of a big, beautiful glowing opal, it's now a much smaller dark opal pearl that almost seems to have bits of tiny lights orbiting it, that flow through almost like it's much bigger on the inside. And the cracks are starting-- 
AABRIA: I'm reaching out slowly, going to touch it. 
TRAVIS: (smack) 
TALIESIN: The cracks are definitely opening up as if it doesn't quite fit. It might be a little big. That's, that's-- Well, that's new. I'm just going to poke at it a bit and a tiny bit of the stone flakes off. 
ROBBIE: Ew. 
AABRIA: Oh, he can poke at it, but I can't. 
TRAVIS: That's right. 
LAURA: Does it hurt, Ashton? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LIAM: Lean down so I can see it. Oh, it looks good, FRIDA's right. 
CHRISTIAN: Broken to be made whole. 
TALIESIN: You know, you go on long enough. Yeah, I've been through a lot. The only thing that has stayed the same that I can remember in my reflection is this eye. Everything else is different. Yeah, something new. 
MARISHA: Are you all right, Ashton? You're acting a little weird, and that's saying something for you. 
TALIESIN: I have an entirely new brain. 
AABRIA: Hold on. What? 
TALIESIN: The inside of my head was clearly hollowed out and I can feel it. So yeah, I would hope I'd be a little weird. It would be a little weird if I wasn't. 
MARISHA: Right. 
LAURA: Do you still feel like yourself? 
TALIESIN: I'm not sure. We'll find out after a nap and a drink and a drink and a drink. Yeah, I think it's me. 
ASHLEY: Does your body still hurt? 
TALIESIN: Oh yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
CHRISTIAN: Miss Calloway. 
TALIESIN: Maybe a little more. It actually hurts a lot more, but I did just drop out of the fucking sky. Holy shit! 
AABRIA: It was so scary. How did you find us? 
AABRIA: We saw you fall out of the sky and we kind of just followed where it landed. Everyone down there's talking about it if they're not crying about the gods being-- (gasps) What'd you do to the gods? 
CHRISTIAN: (laughs) 
LAURA: (stammering) Everything's a long story. 
AABRIA: Are you okay? 
LAURA: No, did you see me-- 
AABRIA: Was that you with the-- 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Are you okay? 
LAURA: No, I'm-- I'm fine. FRIDA... 
CHRISTIAN: I know. 
LAURA: You do. 
CHRISTIAN: I do. 
ASHLEY: How did you know? 
CHRISTIAN: I felt it. 
ASHLEY: I'm so sorry. 
AABRIA: I'm sorry, you guys. 
CHRISTIAN: I'm sorry for you, yeah. 
MARISHA: We wanted to tell you, but we knew we wanted to do it personally and getting messages out was-- 
AABRIA: It's okay. 
MARISHA: It was so weird. 
LIAM: The last couple of months has been kind of a blur. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah, saving the world-- worlds is a lot. 
AABRIA: Who are you? Who are you? 
ROBBIE: New friends. 
AABRIA: Hi, I'm Deanna! 
ROBBIE: Hi, Deanna! 
AABRIA: It's so nice to meet you. 
ROBBIE: Dorian Storm, I'm the bard. I've heard-- 
AABRIA: Hi! 
ROBBIE: Oh, this is them that-- over the campfire. I've heard about you. 
SAM: There's a talking piece of metal over here. Does nobody here think that this is-- 
AABRIA: What's this? What are you? Why is-- 
TRAVIS: Oh! This is Braius Doomseed. 
SAM: Hi, yes. 
LAURA: Deanna. 
SAM: Nice to meet you. 
CHRISTIAN: Doomseed is his name? 
LAURA: I don't even need to talk to you in your head to see that. 
AABRIA: Stop. Stop it! 
ROBBIE: It sounds scary, but don't judge a book by its cover. He's actually quite sweet actually. 
AABRIA: Scared is not the feeling. 
TALIESIN: Still evil, though. Doomseed, you just can't get away from it. 
ROBBIE: Yes, my pleasure. 
CHRISTIAN: FRIDA, nice to meet you. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
MARISHA: Oh, well, so Braius-- 
AABRIA: Oh, we're going to do it out loud, great. Doesn't your girlfriend talk in people's heads? 
MARISHA: This is more subtle. 
LAURA: Yes, in your head. Can I still talk in people's heads? 
MATT: As soon as you try, it works. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Oh my god! I don't like it when you do that shit! 
LAURA: Stinker! 
ROBBIE: Start her back at level one! 
ASHLEY: Stinker! (laughter) 
LAURA: All right, in your head you hear. 
LIAM: ♪ In your head ♪ 
LAURA: He joined us when we were in Aeor. He's kind of a dick and kind of betrayed us-- 
CHRISTIAN: Oh. 
LAURA: And then kind of stopped betraying us. 
CHRISTIAN: Oh. 
LAURA: But he's single. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Not very charming. Extremely charming. 
SAM: Are you all right? You just stared off into space there for a second. 
AABRIA: Don't you worry about me, big boy. I'm good. 
SAM: Oh. I'm just saying, if you need healing, it's something that I can do. 
AABRIA: Show me. 
LAURA: And then in your head you hear: Also, he really likes (mouthed) fucking. In your head, you hear. 
AABRIA: Show me a little! Real quick. 
CHRISTIAN: Is this also in my head? 
AABRIA: No, out loud! Everyone hears it. (laughter) 
AABRIA: That's very nice, we're good. 
TRAVIS: You were glowing. 
AABRIA: Oh yeah, I had to yell at people to be here, which is nice. How are you? 
TRAVIS: Oh, I mean, I'm great. How are you? 
AABRIA: I'm so good. 
TRAVIS: This is amazing. Wait, what was your situation-- 
AABRIA: I felt the ring go. Did you die? 
TRAVIS: Yes, I did. I died bravely-- 
TALIESIN: Did I miss this? 
TRAVIS: -- and for my friend. Shut the fuck up. I died and sacrificed myself and it was only your ring that kept me alive. 
AABRIA: (squeaks) Is he lying to me? 
LAURA: No. 
ASHLEY: No, actually. 
MARISHA: It's partial truth. 
TRAVIS: I just wanted the reaction. I actually gave it to Ashton and Ashton turned into a giant elemental being and it was the only thing that kept him alive. 
AABRIA: What the fuck? You gave away... I backhand you. 
TRAVIS: Well, they really-- (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Saved my life. Fucking saved my life. It saved my life. 
AABRIA: Fine, give it to the person who dies constantly! 
TRAVIS: Oh, what about your deal with the Dawnfather? Didn't he bring you back to life? 
AABRIA: Yeah, but I gave you the ring and then you gave him. I'm just really-- 
TRAVIS: But you're okay. 
AABRIA: I'm-- oh. I'm okay. 
TRAVIS: Oh, that's good. 
AABRIA: It's gone. I'm glad you're safe. I'm sorry I hit you a little bit. 
CHRISTIAN: Can I ask, did anyone-- 
TRAVIS: Memories. 
AABRIA: (laughs) 
CHRISTIAN: -- save any of them? 
AABRIA: ♪ Savalirwood ♪ 
LAURA: We saved so much, yes. 
CHRISTIAN: Would it be okay if I had a piece of FCG? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: We kept his-- 
TRAVIS: I've got a piece on my-- 
LIAM: Orym does the same. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LAURA: Oh, we kept his face. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
SAM: You kept his face. 
ASHLEY: We did. 
SAM: You kept his face? 
TRAVIS: That's a little fucked. 
LAURA: It's a piece of metal, but we did, we kept his face. 
TRAVIS: Fucking, somebody gave him his cheek? Come on. 
SAM: Yeah, it just sounds weird. 
TRAVIS: What are you doing? 
ASHLEY: It does sound weird. 
LAURA: We kept the metal that was on his face. 
TRAVIS: Some Hannibal Lecter shit. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LAURA: Is that better? 
SAM: That's better. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Smiley day to ya! 
LAURA: We just took the-- 
AABRIA: Too soon! 
LAURA: We chopped out that tongue. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, we took out-- 
SAM: There was a-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah, there was like a meat tongue. 
SAM: Oh. 
CHRISTIAN: Personally, that was my favorite part. 
TRAVIS: Oh-kay, all right. 
ASHLEY: It's true. 
TALIESIN: This relationship suddenly makes a lot of sense. 
AABRIA: Fun. 
MARISHA: You know. Actually, FRIDA, I keep thinking about this moment when we first met FCG, and we first met everybody, and he had this lucky coin and he ended up dropping it down one of the tunnels in Jrusar. 
LIAM: You can say I dropped it. 
MARISHA: Orym, I was trying to be nice, I didn't want to throw you under the bus. 
AABRIA: You threw the coin? 
TRAVIS: He shit the bed. 
AABRIA: What the fuck? 
MARISHA: I don't know, but if maybe once things have settled down, I'd be interested in going to find it. 
LAURA: Yeah, I think that'd be wonderful. I think they would've wanted you to have it. 
CHRISTIAN: Yes, I think... I think... I think that they... I think they're out there somewhere. I would love to go find this coin you speak of. I think I might've seen it. This is the one that allowed him to commune with his-- 
ASHLEY: That was another one. 
LAURA: No, that was a new coin. 
CHRISTIAN: A new coin? 
LAURA: The original coin was something different. 
MARISHA: It was glowy. It glowed. 
CHRISTIAN: Right. 
MARISHA and CHRISTIAN: Yes. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: It was really really special, but Orym thought it would be fun to just-- 
LAURA: Away. 
ASHLEY: Throw it away. 
ROBBIE: Are we doing that thing where we're in a quest hole like we just finished a quest and now we're looking for a rebound quest? 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ROBBIE: We should just enjoy the after moment of the quest that we just completed and-- 
ASHLEY: No, you're right, we should be-- 
ROBBIE: It sounds like fun, don't get me wrong. 
LAURA: We have to stop by Jrusar anyway. 
MARISHA: Yes, yes. 
LAURA: Just because. 
MARISHA: Plus, they say death is like the-- You know, retirement is the number one-- 
ROBBIE: Yes, they always say that. Death is retirement. 
MARISHA: Yes, death is retirement. You know. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Sounds good to me, actually. 
SAM: Death is the number one retirement. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LIAM: It's better than saying retirement is death. Can I ask a question? 
MATT: Yes, you may. 
LIAM: Everyone in the city had eyes on where this meteor fell, so are we-- 
MATT: Right, you're all on the top of the Heaven's Stair-- 
LIAM: Right. 
MATT: -- where you climbed up to release Predathos. So everyone's eyes are up now on the mountain where you've all reconvened. 
LAURA: So they are there. 
LIAM: So we're distant from the populace in general? 
AABRIA: It's like "The Grinch." 
MATT: For the time being. 
AABRIA: We're looking out over Whoville. 
MATT: Yeah, correct. 
LIAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: Though you're uncertain how quickly they're going to swarm up and figure out what the fuck just happened. But at the moment, you are solitary on top of the mountain. 
LIAM: Okay, cool. 
TRAVIS: Oh, that reminds me, I made a bunch of my game on the toy craft. It's really pretty good. But I actually didn't end up using this. I made you something. 
AABRIA: Wait, for me? CHETNEY: Yeah. I was reminded of all of our, you know, our wild escapades on the beach under the moonlight. And I stole a big piece out from this tight ass in Whitestone and it reminded me of what we used to do. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Anyway, this Rolo son of a bitch, he has this huge clock tower. I snatched a little gear out of there and-- 
AABRIA: You stole something for me? 
TRAVIS: -- put it together with wood. I thought it would remind you of us. 
AABRIA: The motion of the ocean. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
AABRIA: Thanks, Chetty. This is really nice. 
LIAM: Is that size accurate? 
CHRISTIAN: Oh god. 
AABRIA: Can I make an insight check? I'm trying to see what the vibe is here because I'm so happy to have this be platonic, but I cannot tell in this moment. 
TRAVIS: I'll straight-up tell, I'm just happy to see you alive. I was worried after all the gods went (whooshing) and also, oh, you know, memories. 
AABRIA: Hey, thanks, Chetty. I'm so glad you're alive. 
CHRISTIAN: Gone, dead? 
LAURA: Well, they're not dead. 
CHRISTIAN: Okay. 
LIAM: They're not gone. 
AABRIA: They're going to be reincarnated as people in the world. 
LAURA: Exactly that. 
MARISHA: Did you already talk to your god? 
AABRIA: Oh my god, yeah. And we had a really nice conversation. 
MARISHA: Really? 
AABRIA: It was so sweet. He was such a butthole before, but then it was like, we hugged and it was so nice. 
LAURA: Really? You hugged the Dawnfather? 
AABRIA: It was so nice. Yeah. You know, like-- 
LAURA: What was-- Did he seem-- 
SAM: Was it hot? 
LAURA: -- mad? Did he seem-- 
AABRIA: Sorry, what? 
SAM: Was it hot? Like did it burn you or what? 
TRAVIS: Heat-wise. 
AABRIA: Yes. Yeah, heat-wise. 
TRAVIS: Where'd your hand go? 
SAM: Temperature. 
AABRIA: Very warm. Don't worry about me. 
TRAVIS: All right. 
SAM: Just curious. 
LIAM: Like a burning butthole. 
SAM: What? What is that look? Is your eye loose again out of its socket? 
MARISHA: Sorry. It's the muscles. It drifts a little bit. 
AABRIA: You get stick drift in your left eye? (laughter) 
MARISHA: Just like a Joy-Con. (laughter) 
AABRIA:They're making Eye 2 soon, so you should be okay. (laughter) 
AABRIA: It's going to be good. Get you on the list for that. 
MARISHA: Thank you. 
SAM: So you and you are an item together? 
TRAVIS: We were, hundreds of years ago. 
AABRIA: Truly hundreds. 
TRAVIS: And whenever is convenient. 
SAM: You don't look-- 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
SAM: You don't look a day over-- I can't. I shouldn't finish that sentence. 
AABRIA: You should. You should. (laughter) 
AABRIA: It's going very well for you. 
ROBBIE: You finally know when you got to self-regulate. 
AABRIA: Have you told them about the Savalirwood thing? 
TRAVIS: No. I think you should let him find out on his own. 
AABRIA: Good call. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
AABRIA: What's your deal? 
SAM: My deal is like you, I was following a god who is not with us anymore. 
AABRIA: Which one? 
ASHLEY: Would you like to tell her which one? 
TALIESIN: You should. 
SAM: Well, at first I was sort of rolling with the Platinum Dragon. 
TRAVIS: Rollin'. 
SAM: You might have noticed Truthbearer, fabled plate of Uther Vendrock. (laughter) 
AABRIA: I'm so sorry. Did you have a little script just now? You good? 
SAM: You might've noticed Truthbearer, fabled plate of Uther Vendrock, my armor? (laughter) 
AABRIA: I love your Nintendo. What? (laughter) 
SAM: I briefly dabbled in some betrayer-- 
AABRIA: Name names. 
SAM: Some people say Asmodeus. Some people call him the Lord of Lies, the King of the Hells. 
MARISHA and ASHLEY: Some people say Asmoday-us. 
SAM: Really? Have I been saying it wrong this whole time? 
AABRIA: You're incredibly bad at this. 
LAURA: Did you say that to him in person? Tell me you said his name to him. 
SAM: I did. Is that not how you say it? 
TRAVIS: You said his name wrong to his face? 
AABRIA: You said his name wrong to his face? 
SAM: He didn't correct me. 
ROBBIE: He gave you a pass. 
AABRIA: You have to tell me the truth. You do not lie to me. Did you say his name wrong to his face? 
SAM: I could lie to you if I wanted to. I'm very good at it. But no, I actually said it to his face. He didn't even blink. 
ROBBIE: That means he likes you. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: He gave you a pass. 
ASHLEY: He's probably used to people saying that. 
AABRIA: Were you trying to fuck the Lord of Hell? 
ROBBIE: He was showing you grace. 
SAM: Really? You think so? 
ROBBIE: I do think so. 
AABRIA: Hold on. Could I have fucked the Dawnfather? Damn it! 
ASHLEY: Whoa! 
MATT: (increasingly high pitched) What?! What kind of question is that?! 
TALIESIN: If we've done anything, it's that everything is dateable. 
AABRIA: You got to start again. 
TRAVIS: You didn't know that was going to come? 
MATT: Make an insight check. 
LAURA: Deanna, they're going to walk Exandria. 
LIAM: Yeah, you might not have yet, but you sure can down the road. 
LAURA: There's always an option. 
AABRIA: 27. 
MATT: 27. I'm going to roll persuasion. 
TALIESIN: Like 28. 
MATT: Going to be 12 plus the Dungeon Master's 300. (laughter) 
AABRIA: So you're saying there's a chance. 
MATT: You don't know. (laughter) 
AABRIA: I absolutely could have. 
LAURA: It's always an option. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: With them walking the earth. 
TALIESIN: You can certainly try. 
LIAM: You just have to bide your time. 
AABRIA: That's just a guy. 
LAURA: New life goal: fuck every single god walking on the earth. 
LIAM: Every single one? 
CHRISTIAN: Every single? 
LAURA: Why not? 
TRAVIS: I was going to hunt a few. 
TALIESIN: I now regret everything I did. 
TRAVIS: You want to bone them? 
TALIESIN: Should've just let-- 
LAURA: I don't. I'm just saying-- 
ASHLEY: How crazy would that be? 
LAURA: -- it's an option, Braius. 
AABRIA: I set 'em up, you knock 'em down. 
SAM: That's a pretty good goal. 
TRAVIS: I like that. Yes, ma'am. 
AABRIA: Yeah. Let's go. 
LIAM: Is the Crawling King on the table? 
SAM: I've been, you know-- 
ASHLEY: The Crawling King? That's what you're going to get after? 
LIAM: Give me some time. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Oh really? 
LIAM: Mm-hm. 
AABRIA: Oh, this is fun. 
SAM: I feel like I've been controlled and manipulated by so many gods, but maybe now it's time to-- 
LAURA: Control and manipulate. 
SAM: -- dom them. 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
ROBBIE: So you were a follower of these gods. You were never a champion. Correct? 
SAM: I was-- 
ROBBIE: Not a slight, just a question. 
SAM: I was a herald of...Asmodayoos? How did you say it? 
AABRIA: Lord of Hells. What are you doing? 
TRAVIS: ♪ Beelzebub ♪ 
SAM: King of Lies. 
ROBBIE: I wonder what happens to-- 
SAM: What is happening over here? 
ROBBIE: What happens to the champions? 
ASHLEY: I have toots. 
LAURA: Ashley's tooting. 
ASHLEY: Sorry. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Fearne's got the toots. 
ROBBIE: Yeah? 
ASHLEY: I have the toots, and I'm really dry, so-- (laughter) 
ROBBIE: That toot sounded wet. (laughter) 
AABRIA: That's where all the moisture went. 
ASHLEY: That's where all my carbs are, in my stomach. I'm sorry. 
SAM: Okay, okay. 
ROBBIE: I mean, what happens to the champions of the gods now? 
AABRIA: I don't know. 
TALIESIN: We're going to find out, I guess. 
AABRIA: The world's a little wild. 
ROBBIE: Dorian is specifically thinking of Opal right now. 
SAM: Mm. 
TRAVIS: Oh, shit, yeah. 
ROBBIE: Though he keeps it to himself. 
LAURA: We didn't ask about it. 
ROBBIE: I just wonder. 
MARISHA: I mentioned that they had the champions, that gods have the champions to protect them in their in-between phase. 
LAURA: Yeah, but then you rolled a nine. 
MARISHA: Then I rolled nine, and so-- 
AABRIA: You rolled a what? 
TALIESIN: Wow. 
ROBBIE: Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. See, it's a thing we do. 
TRAVIS: Way to lift up your partner there. (laughter) 
AABRIA: These relationships are bad and we should ruin all of them. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
SAM: It's not just the champions, though. What about the souls of those who are devoted to these gods?
LIAM: I don't think we're going to have a lot of answers today. 
ASHLEY: Oh, wait. 
MARISHA: What about the clerics? What about people who-- Can you magic? Can you still magic? 
AABRIA: I cast Dawn. 
MATT: Yep. (whoosh) Light emanates. 
MARISHA: All right. 
AABRIA: Yay! 
MARISHA: One question answered. We're doing great. 
ASHLEY: Would the champions be free now? 
TRAVIS: Free? 
LAURA: Maybe. 
TRAVIS: From their obligations, you mean? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LAURA: Why don't you try? Call your guy. 
AABRIA: Who's your guy? 
TALIESIN: Oh, that guy. 
ASHLEY: Oh, I have a guy. I have a guy. 
SAM: Teven Klask? 
ASHLEY: He works for-- yes. 
SAM: Teven Klask? 
ASHLEY: Teven Campbell? 
AABRIA: Teven Campbell? 
SAM: Little T? 
LAURA: Lord of Lies. He works for the Lord of Lies. 
AABRIA: (gasps) 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
AABRIA: Nice. Is he single? 
LAURA: Why don't you ask? You can ask him. 
TALIESIN: There's so much happening over here. 
LAURA: Are you still a champion? Are you still tied to him? Do you have freedom now? 
ASHLEY: (kisses) 
TRAVIS: Oh, you kissed it? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I kissed it. 
MATT: You summon him? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Oh god. 
TRAVIS: That's how you summon him, with that weak shit? Get on that hand. 
LAURA: Oh god. Wait. 
TRAVIS: There it is. 
AABRIA: Let's go! 
LAURA: Wait! Is everyone looking at us? Are you summoning a fucking-- 
TRAVIS: Motivate him to show up, why don't you? 
MATT: Well, as you are here at the apex of the mountain, this built stone platform that marks the viewing point-- 
ASHLEY: I just stick my hand under my dress. 
SAM: Oh jesus. 
CHRISTIAN: Oh my god. 
AABRIA: We're back, baby! 
LAURA: Burning red. Look how red you got him to turn. 
TRAVIS: And toot on it. 
ASHLEY: It's because Aabria's at the table. She brings it out of us. 
TRAVIS: Look at that. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: It's a little gift. 
SAM: (shushes) 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: The spell doesn't say-- Well, maybe I won't say it. 
ASHLEY: Come here. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Sorry. 
TRAVIS: Hey look, Ruidus! (laughter) 
MATT: As you kiss your ring-- (laughter) 
LIAM: The air quotes. 
MATT: The air around suddenly takes on a sulfurous smell. Within a brief second, the tearing sound of flames through the air, too real in recent week, (flames whooshing) emerges in the space around, as suddenly before you, a dark shadow emerges from a flash of red and orange flame. There, standing before you, the armored, the muscular, blade-wielding, black, massive hair-maned devil figure that is Teven emerges from this hellish gateway. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
CHRISTIAN: What the fuck is going on? (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
AABRIA: And Fearne's hitting that? 
ROBBIE: We're just testing a theory. 
CHRISTIAN: Okay! 
AABRIA: Good job! 
MARISHA: Fearne-- 
AABRIA: I'm so proud of you. 
ASHLEY: Thank you. 
ROBBIE: Ask him. Ask him. 
ASHLEY: Hello. Hey. 
TRAVIS: "Hello"? 
ASHLEY: (scoffs) I'm just getting started. Okay? 
AABRIA: Let her cook. 
ASHLEY: Just let me cook. Thank you, Deanna. 
AABRIA: I pat you on the shoulder and cast Guidance. 
ASHLEY: Thank you so much. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: How are you? How are you? 
MATT: His burning, glowing eyes glance upon the entirety of the troop that surrounds him-- 
ASHLEY: You seem a little stressed. 
MATT: -- as the flames still flicker off the side of his shoulder. 
AABRIA: 'Sup? (laughs) 
MATT: Reaches out and takes the end of your fingers. "You called at a strange time, dear." 
ASHLEY: Yes, I did, but it was just because I need answers and I wanted to see how you're doing. Are you still a champion of Asmodeus? Asmodeus? 
AABRIA: How do we say the name? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I'm actually un-- 
MATT: Takes your fingers and pulls you away from the troop and begins to walk away from the rest of you. 
AABRIA: I follow. Fuck off. 
MATT: Taking the two of them away. 
AABRIA: Someone has to grab me. I'm nosy. 
TRAVIS: Nobody's got to grab you. Just go. 
AABRIA: I'm going. 
MATT: All right. You pull up. As you do, he glances over your shoulder and as he raises his hand, flames (flames whooshing) burn in front of you to block your path. 
AABRIA: Respect. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Okay. 
AABRIA: I back up. 
MATT: Pulls you over towards, not too far from the top of the apex stair that hits at the very peak of this and turns to you, his wings (wings whooshing) unfurling and almost encircling you to create a private conversation space. 
AABRIA: (squeaks) 
MATT: Now it seems like just the two of you within the cage of his leathered wings. "My lord has left us, but will be back and we will find him once more." 
ASHLEY: What are you supposed to do in the meantime? Did he give you any directives? Did he-- 
MATT: "Aye. We are to keep his temples. We are to see to his truths and we shall find him and rise again. He will be back and we will have need of you, Calloway." 
ASHLEY: Wait, why will you have need of me? 
MATT: "We are bound." As you look down, he's still grasping your fingers where the mark lies on your hand. 
ASHLEY: That's right. Wait, but I don't-- But when this-- This doesn't go away? (laughter) 
AABRIA: Hit it. 
MATT: "My lord's contracts are eternal. We are bound to each other as you are bound to him. He will be back." 
AABRIA: Commitment. This is good. 
ASHLEY: Commitment, it stresses me out so much. 
AABRIA: Just fuck him. Sorry. I'm behind the flame wall. (laughter) 
AABRIA: Hit it like the fist of an angry god! 
LIAM: It ain't soundproof. 
AABRIA: Get it. 
MATT: He flicks a finger up in that direction past you and as you're shouting, your words come out to no sound. 
LIAM: Orym's going to do a quick 360 and make sure the city's not mobilizing on us because of this. It's a 23 or four. 
MATT: 23. Easy enough to pick up the sound of many, many armored footsteps getting louder up the stairs towards the peak of the mountain. 
LIAM: Fearne, you might want to wrap it up. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Well, I guess I'll call on you if I need you. 
MATT: "And you will." 
ASHLEY: Mm, okay. 
MATT: As the footsteps get louder and louder until eventually, you begin to see the shadowed tops of helmeted heads begin to crest from around the bend of the rising staircase. (flames whooshing) The flames engulf Teven as he vanishes. You look down at the mark on your finger, which has now spread into your, that part of your hand now has all manner of dark, curling, hellish runes and designs that now curl up towards the top of your hand. 
AABRIA: That's so fucking cool. 
ASHLEY: Fuck yes! 
AABRIA: Let's go. 
ASHLEY: That's a much better design. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Thank you. 
MATT: As you look at it, the edges of it still glow like an ember, the edges of a burned piece of wood. 
LAURA: I've read this smutty book and it's good. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
AABRIA: Girls-- 
LIAM: You wrote this smutty book. (laughter) 
MATT: The rest of the bastions rush up and there with a number of Dawn Marshal general-like guardians, you watch as Highbearer Vord-- 
LAURA: He's just misunderstood. 
MATT: -- approaches, indeed looking fearful and gaunt, with a blade out at the side as-- 
LIAM: Orym's going to descend a bit, smiling. We're okay. For now, we're okay. I don't know what it all means yet. There's a lot to unpack, but danger abated for the moment, right? 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, we're good. 
MATT: "So we've been told upon our respective scattered communions." 
MARISHA: And how do you feel? 
AABRIA: (laughs) 
MATT: "What of this one? You who step into the first city and hold us ransom, what have you to say, vessel? Is it gone? What are you?" 
LAURA: I'm just Imogen. You saw it, same as us, right? It's left. 
ROBBIE: There's no reason-- 
LAURA: It worked. 
ROBBIE: There's no reason for it to stay. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: You see that intense look. Vord, who is ancient among the elves and has held a strength of power, looks shaken and sallow. A being that has spent their life in service as one of the highest of the high priests, now godless in but the past recent moments staring at the cause. 
LAURA: I step forward to him. 
MATT: The blade is still extended in your direction as you step forward. It's still out in a defensive way. 
CHRISTIAN: I don't like that. 
LAURA: I'm just me. I'm sorry that it came to this, truly. 
SAM: Let her pass. You can trust me, for I wear Truthbearer, fabled plate of Uther Vendrock. 
ASHLEY: Luther Vandross. (laughter) 
CHRISTIAN: ♪ Never too much, never too much, never too much ♪ 
LAURA: The gods agreed to this. 
MATT: A figure steps out and places their hand on the side of Vord's blade and then you see stepping forward the High Hierophant Ophera. The curling staff of the Wildmother itself, once an abundantly bright green, sits at an autumn hue. "What's done is done. The choice was not theirs, but theirs," as she looks above. "Now is not the time to let this animosity ride." 
AABRIA: You know that wasn't the point, right? Worshiping the gods because they're gods. The gifts that they gave us were to help each other and that doesn't end just because they're gone. 
MATT: Vord's blade pulls back and sheaths it rapidly. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
MATT: "Then what is this city now?" 
AABRIA: A bastion of hope for all of the world. 
TRAVIS: Whatever you decide to make it. 
ROBBIE: A new beginning. 
MATT: Vord looks around in a huff, spins and turns and runs straight into the brick shithouse armored wall that is Earthbreaker Groon. (laughter) 
MATT: And just stops and Groon puts his hand on Vord's shoulder and pulls her head into his forehead and says, "We will mourn. We will mourn." And pats the back of Vord's head before stepping aside to let Vord walk and Vord, not even looking back at you all, steps amongst the ranks of soldiers. 
LIAM: It's going to take some time. 
TALIESIN: Cheers to a new world. 
MARISHA: I just say this to the group: Am I wrong to be a little irritated right now? 
LAURA: It's a lot for people to handle. 
MARISHA: We just saved Exandria and they're acting like we just ruined their future. 
LAURA: I mean, to some of them-- 
CHRISTIAN: Sometimes that's what it feels like. 
LIAM: To let go of the thing you devoted your life to. 
TALIESIN: You gave them work to do. That makes anybody upset, especially if it's work on themselves. 
LIAM: You spend 50, 60, 500 years following your moral dictates, it's not going to slip away-- 
LAURA: I understand. 
LIAM: -- overnight. 
ASHLEY: Imogen, would you be able to send a message to somebody? 
LAURA: I should be able to. I can still-- 
ASHLEY: I think we should check on Opal. 
AABRIA: Who's Opal? 
LAURA: She was your friend. 
ASHLEY: Yes, she was our friend and she was the champion-- 
LAURA: Oh. Lolth? 
ASHLEY: -- of Lolth. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: Oh. Oh, I'm so sorry. 
LAURA: Okay. 
LIAM: Complicated. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Just see if she's okay or-- You know? 
LAURA: If she's still herself or-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: She was more than just a champion. 
LAURA: What was she? 
ROBBIE: She was influenced by a vestige. But that power was held by the gods, so. 
ASHLEY: Maybe she's free. 
ROBBIE: She could be. I don't know. I don't dare hope. 
LAURA: Some things persist. 
ASHLEY: I know. 
ROBBIE: Can you do it? Do you-- 
LAURA: Yeah, I can. I can send her-- Let me see if I got a spell, though. 
LIAM: (mockingly) Let me see if I got that spell, though. 
LAURA: No, I don't got it. (exaggerated grumbly mumbles) 
ASHLEY: French fried potat-ers. 
MATT: Just a table-- (laughs) (growly mumbling continues) 
ROBBIE: Mashed potatoes. 
AABRIA: FRIDA, shoot me. Shoot me right now. 
TRAVIS: A Louisiana swamp. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
AABRIA: It got real growly. 
MATT: Table of diseased actors is what we are. 
LAURA: I surprisingly still have sorcery points left, so I'm going to convert those into a 3rd-level spell and send her a little old message. 
MATT: All right. What do you say? 
LIAM: (gravelly) Mm-hmm. (snickering) 
ROBBIE: Orym, you're good with concise. Can you help us? 
LAURA: Opal. 
LIAM: She's got it. 
AABRIA: Strong start. 
LAURA: I'm with your friends. Are you yourself or under her influence? 
LIAM: Where are you? 
ROBBIE: How are you? 
LAURA: Where are you? 
MATT: Opal, if you would quickly step in here. 
LAURA: (gasps) (excited cheering) 
AABRIA: What? 
ASHLEY: Woo! 
TRAVIS: Where do you want to go? Where do you want to go? 
MARISHA: Where does she go? 
LAURA: Where is she going to go? 
AABRIA: Just slide her across the front. 
MATT: We'll see. 
SAM: Should I-- 
ASHLEY: Just sit on the table. 
LAURA: Slide across-- 
SAM: Should I move? Should we move? 
MATT: No, I was saying, you can sit in my chair real fast and answer the question and then you can step out again. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
AABRIA: Oh, that's fun! 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
TRAVIS: You get to sit in the big seat? 
LAURA: Did you get-- 
AABRIA: Yeah, let's go! 
ASHLEY: Yeah, baby! (excited cheering) 
ROBBIE: Yay! 
LAURA: Great! 
AIMEE: This is the scariest place I've ever been. (laughter) 
AIMEE: And I've been to the gynecologist a lot this year. 
ROBBIE: Touch all the buttons! 
AABRIA: Do something crazy. 
MATT: Opal, suddenly within your mind, you hear an unfamiliar voice ask questions from some ether-like space. 
LAURA: I asked you... I don't remember what I asked you. (laughter) 
LAURA: I said I'm here with your friends. Are you yourself, or under her influence still? 
TRAVIS: And where? 
LAURA: Where are you? 
MATT: You have a couple of sentences to respond. 
ASHLEY: She's doing it. 
LAURA: Yeah, I know. 
AABRIA: We're going to count them all off. Don't fuck it up. 
AIMEE: (fortifying breath) Hello? I don't know. I think so. My head's quiet. 
ASHLEY: (gasps) 
ROBBIE: That's good. 
AIMEE: I think I'm close. Did you lose a body? (laughter) 
LIAM: Five words left. 
MATT: Perfect. 
AIMEE: Fall out of the sky. (laughter and applauding) 
AABRIA: Yeah! Full send. 
MATT: Yeah. Thank you. Well done. 
AABRIA: Let's go! 
LAURA: Oh! (laughter) 
LAURA: Well, she didn't sound evil. She sounded sweet and said her head was clear. 
ASHLEY: Great, great. 
ROBBIE: Her head was clear? 
LAURA: She said she didn't hear-- 
TRAVIS: The voices were quiet. 
LAURA: -- the voice is quiet. 
ASHLEY: (gasps) 
LAURA: That's what she said. I was distracted by the sound of her beauty. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: The voice is so nice. 
LIAM: She sounded beautiful? 
LAURA: Yeah, she sounded gorgeous. 
AABRIA: Oh. 
LAURA: She said she saw Ashton fall. 
SAM and MARISHA: Oh! 
ROBBIE: She's close. 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
LAURA: So she's close! 
MARISHA: Everyone is in this city! 
LAURA: Unless there were other bodies falling out of the sky at the same time, but. 
SAM: I mean-- 
TALIESIN: Probably at least one. It's a big world. 
LAURA: Maybe. 
CHRISTIAN: (laughs) 
MARISHA: That's fair, actually. Statistically. 
TALIESIN: Statistically there's probably at least one. There's a lot of air ships. 
LAURA: So wait. 
LIAM: Okay. 
LAURA: Hold on. How many more sorcery points? 
LIAM: You got one more in you to tell her to come find us? 
LAURA: We just sent her away. Hold on. ♪ Dee dee dee dee dee ♪ 
MARISHA: She's driving home now. 
LAURA: Fuck off. 
MARISHA: She's done. 
LIAM: (laughs) 
LAURA: I am down to six. Down to three. I have three sorcery points left now so I can do another one. Because I had six, I can bring it down to three. I can send her another message. 
MATT: Sure. 
LAURA and LIAM: (laugh) 
MATT: Hey Opal, come on back. (laughter) 
LAURA: She's gone already. 
SAM: She left. 
MATT: She's just chilling at home. 
AABRIA: If you give me her phone number, I can text her from my phone. I just don't know her. (laughter) (laughter) 
MATT: You're on today, girl. 
LAURA: Sorry. 
LIAM: That was all that was in her contract. (laughter) 
AABRIA: I have Sending. I just do not know who she is. It would be like: Hi, random number. What's good? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
AABRIA: You sound hot? 
LAURA: Yes, yes. We're close. We're on the hill up Heaven's Bridge-- Stairs? Stairs. Heaven's Stairs. 
ASHLEY: Heaven's Gate. 
ROBBIE: Tell her to listen for the thunder. Listen for the thunder. 
LAURA: Listen for the thunder. Dorian, Dorian says hi. 
AIMEE: Oh, Dorian. Okay. I'm coming. (cheering) 
ROBBIE: I'm going to immediately cast Thunderclap 50 feet above us. 
LIAM: Yo! 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TRAVIS: And Fearne will toot. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: (blows raspberry) (laughter) 
AABRIA: Follow the toot. 
TALIESIN: No one, really? Okay. 
MATT: (thunder rumbles) Emanates, and it's a localized thunderclap sound that echoes off a little bit. Everyone looks around and everyone looks to Groon. Groon's like, "Wasn't me." (laughter) Raises his hand up and that thunderclap, now bolts of lighting (striking bolts) start streaking out of the thin air. The clouds have not filled the cleared sky at this point, but bolts seem to apparate out of the middle of the atmosphere itself. There's an effect, like a reddish bolt, almost like a jellyfish spread that seems to arc out right at the top, where it does crackling with an echoing blast of thunder. "That was me." (laughter) Everyone nods. 
TRAVIS: Show off. 
MATT: There is the sound-- As you all talk amongst yourselves for a bit, and we have a moment before she gets there, so if you want to chat for a moment. 
CHRISTIAN: Mr. Pock O'Pea, can I speak to you alone for a second? 
AABRIA: Go, go, go. 
TRAVIS: Of course. Yeah, yes, yes, of course. 
CHRISTIAN: So, when we saw Ashton, not Ashford. When we saw Ashton fall from-- 
TRAVIS: Ashford? 
CHRISTIAN: That's what De-- Long story. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
CHRISTIAN: It wasn't just him that led us to you, them that led us to you. I could smell you. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I'm sorry. I'm real old. It sounded like you said you could smell me. I mean, it's been a hectic 48, 72, but I don't think-- 
CHRISTIAN: No, it's not that. I mean, I'm like you now. 
ASHLEY: (gasps) 
LAURA: You bit him? 
ASHLEY: That's right! 
TALIESIN: Wait. 
LIAM: You made a robo-wolf. 
TRAVIS: Wait. 
LAURA: You made a robo-wolf? 
AABRIA: Robo-lobo. 
TRAVIS: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. When you say-- 
ASHLEY: Oh my god, I forgot about that. 
TALIESIN: Technically a Decepticon-- 
TRAVIS: Can I lean in on FRIDA and do a little-- (sniffs)? 
AABRIA: Yeah, sniff each other's butts. 
TRAVIS: Well, yeah, can we? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I'll get down. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Make a little ouroboros with each other's butts. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Ouroboros. 
MATT: While the Dawn Marshalls of Vasselheim are like-- 
ASHLEY: The fuck? 
TRAVIS: Look away! Don't look me in the eye, motherfucker! (laughter) 
AABRIA: That's part of it. 
CHRISTIAN: It's been so hard. 
LAURA: (laughs) Sorry. (laughter) 
CHRISTIAN: It's just Deanna and I, and she's been great, but it happened one time and it was-- FCG, I felt like every fiber in my steel body ripped apart and put together again, and then I was angry, so angry, and I couldn't understand why. Then it dawned on me that they were gone and that anger turned to something primal. Then I didn't remember, and I awoke and Deanna was there, and there were a lot of dead things around me. 
TRAVIS: Oh gosh! 
AABRIA: I love meat. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, that sounds very familiar. This is new. I mean, you are, frankly, metal. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: You... 
CHRISTIAN: Well, more than metal. Soul, but-- 
TRAVIS: Yes. Yes, yes, yes. 
CHRISTIAN: But you know, it's like the metal, I can feel things, I can smell things, I can see things, I can hear things. It's incredible. 
TRAVIS: It is, isn't it? 
CHRISTIAN: But it's fucking scary. 
TRAVIS: Of course. I mean, all new things are, but also exhilarating. Metal wolf. Motherfucker. Ah! This is great! You must feel very concerned that you wouldn't be able to control this. Were you worried about Deanna? 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah, yeah. I don't think she's too worried. But yes, I'm worried about Deanna and everyone and anyone. 
TRAVIS: She can tame the wolf, you know what I'm saying? She can tame the wolf. 
CHRISTIAN: I'd rather not think about it. 
AABRIA: I asked. 
CHRISTIAN: That was a long night for me. 
TRAVIS: I understand. 
LAURA and AABRIA: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: I don't want to be too forward, but I've only just recently gotten ahold of this myself and it took the instruction and care of people that knew what they were talking about. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah, that's-- So this is kind of-- I was hoping that I could-- You made me, and I was hoping I could study with you, Mr. Pock O'Pea. 
TRAVIS: That's so strange. I swore I would never make anything out of metal. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Oh my god! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I guess we all have to-- 
AABRIA: Incredible. 
TRAVIS: -- try new tricks. 
AABRIA: Incredible. I love it here. 
TRAVIS: FRIDA. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: I've never had a protégé, but I've been one, and it would be a great honor if you would allow me to guide you through this. There are many people I can-- The Gorgynei are fucking nuts. They will love to see this. 
CHRISTIAN: That is... I have to tell Deanna, but yes. 
TRAVIS: I mean, my slate's open. We did the thing, so you know, a project I'm here for. 
CHRISTIAN: I can be a project. When I felt FCG go, it was like the best thing in the world being ripped off of it and compressed into something small and ugly. I was angry at all of you. I wondered how could they let that happen, right? Then that turned into-- We've been alive for a long time, and when you lose everything, you gain gratitude. I think-- I think I've never been more grateful. So thank you. Thank you. 
TRAVIS: Wow. Not many in this world are older than I am, especially now that they're gone. That means a lot, and I know what FCG meant to you, what he meant to all of us. If it's any consolation now, he saved us. They were the only thing that kept us alive. 
CHRISTIAN: I can feel them still, their soul. It's like a song I don't remember, but I want to remember. I want to remember. Thank you. 
TRAVIS: Of course. And who knows? You can topple gods. Maybe there's even more to uncover about someone like you, like them. I feel like something like that can neither be created or destroyed, so maybe we make it a side project of ours. 
CHRISTIAN: Okay. I've been-- I was hoping I'd see you again, and I made something for you. It's really crude. 
TRAVIS: You what? 
CHRISTIAN: I made something for you. 
TRAVIS: You didn't make something, protégé. You crafted it! 
CHRISTIAN: I'm sorry, I crafted it, Mr. Pock O'Pea. 
ROBBIE: Oh boy. 
CHRISTIAN: And I-- Click, click, click. I open and I pull out-- I know you don't like working with metal. It is a very crude rendering of an Aeormaton's heart, a core, and it's pink and emerald and shiny, beautiful glacial shards of stone. 
TRAVIS: Holy shit. It's beautiful. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you. 
TRAVIS: Metal, but beautiful. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah, that's what I thought. 
AABRIA: It's hard to please Dad. Good luck. 
TRAVIS: It's all right. You got room for growth, clearly. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I'll keep this with me. 
CHRISTIAN: Okay. Thank you. 
TRAVIS: Of course. (sighs) Boy, Deanna's fit to be tied, huh? We really got to get her with Braius. 
CHRISTIAN: What does that mean: Fit to be tied? 
TRAVIS: They need to run some laps. 
CHRISTIAN: I don't-- (uncertain hum) 
TRAVIS: It's an expression. Don't worry. Tie her up, you'll see. 
CHRISTIAN: I start speaking all kinds of languages. Spanish, Japanese, just going crazy. (laughter) 
LIAM: Orym, by now, has leapt up onto Fearne's shoulder and has his hand intertwined with Dorian's, and I'm staring off into the crowds down below trying to spot our friend in the masses. 
MATT: Right. 
ASHLEY: Do you see her? Do you see her? 
MATT: While this is happening, Groon and Ophera approach with their guard to the sides, too, as most of the guards are now beginning to head down the staircase again. Ophera's, "This is a great change across the realm and there is much that we must discuss as a council of the future, and there are a number of matters here that I think do concern you outside of that aspect of recent events. Your compatriot from Ruidus has spoken of a great many of their people in a awaiting state--" 
LIAM: Right. 
MATT: "-- and with the destruction of the Malleus Key, we know not of their fate or what is to come, so we would ask your assistance, being those with the most communication, and knowledge, and understanding." Groon steps forward. "Some will not trust, maybe in time, but some see your hearts and know you did what needed to be done." 
MARISHA: Are you one of them? Are you cross with us? 
MATT: "If I was cross with you, you would already be re-dead." 
AABRIA: (laughs) 
MARISHA: I love the specification. That was a nice touch. Thank you. 
ROBBIE: I do like the idea of re-alive, though. 
CHRISTIAN: That sounds nice. 
ROBBIE: We've been searching for a word, right? Not undead, but re-alived. 
MARISHA and AABRIA: Re-alived. 
ROBBIE: Feels nice. 
MARISHA: It's like a glass half-full kind of thing. 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Re-alive. 
TRAVIS: It's all in the presentation. 
AABRIA: Mm-hmm! 
MATT: But the soldiers shift and like, "Please come with us," and Ophera and them begin to guide you all down the stairs on the top of the mountain. You are essentially being-- 
MARISHA: Okay, we'll go. 
MATT: You're essentially being given a nicely forceful escort (laughs) from the space where you were. In that scenario, you're all keeping an eye out, heading down the long, winding aspect of the side of the mountain towards where the Platinum Sanctuary is and beyond. The two of you scatter off and get pulled from the guards to focus primarily on this troop, so for the time being, if you wouldn't mind stepping away. Thank you. 
AABRIA: Fuck you guys. We're out! (laughter) 
AABRIA: How cute are the guards? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Stop it! 
AABRIA: Let me try! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Come this way. 
ROBBIE: Or should we save-- 
TALIESIN: Get your seat back. Fuck yeah. 
MARISHA: In here, just in case. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: That's the best thing I ever did. 
ROBBIE: Doing the opposite of manspreading. 
MATT: But you do notice, Orym, as you walk alongside Dorian holding his hand and looking across the cityscape here in the fresh night of Vasselheim, it sounds like the clattering of spears and a few shouts, and what looks like a circle of soldiers surrounding a familiar glint of pink leather down, partway up the base of the staircase, and there, it looks to be a standoff at the moment between your called compatriot and many of the defending forces at the base of the Platinum Sanctuary's staircase. 
LIAM: Ma! (laughter) 
MATT: If you wouldn't mind coming to the table. 
ROBBIE: Yes! 
ASHLEY: Yay! Come here, baby! 
MARISHA: Woo! 
ROBBIE: Where we going? Over there. Over there. 
AIMEE: Oh, oh, oh. 
SAM: Got a thing? 
LIAM: Where do you want to be? 
SAM: I think you can-- 
TRAVIS: In the middle, in the middle. 
LAURA: Right there? 
AIMEE: Ooh. 
LIAM: Where do you want to be? 
MARISHA: Put her next to Orym. 
AIMEE: Get to be a little taller. 
LAURA: Oh. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
AIMEE: Thank you. 
MARISHA: ♪ I wish I was a little bit taller ♪ 
LAURA: Okay. 
AIMEE: ♪ I wish I was a baller ♪ Okay. 
MATT: ♪ If I did I would call her ♪ 
LAURA: Scoochie-scoochies. 
ROBBIE: As we get closer-- 
TALIESIN: Clean up, move down. There we are. 
AIMEE: How's that? 
ROBBIE: I guess this is a question for you or her. Is she wearing the crown? Are you wearing the crown? 
AIMEE: Am I wearing the crown? 
MATT: I'm asking you. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
AIMEE: Yes. 
ROBBIE: (gasps) 
AIMEE: But-- 
ROBBIE: Is it drippy? Is it icky? 
LAURA: (laughs) 
AIMEE: I think I'm going to bring my dice out and hope that Matt will make me roll one for the answer. 
ROBBIE: (gasps) 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Oh, I like that. 
MATT: Sure. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
MATT: Roll a d20 for me. 
AIMEE: Okay. This is my Opal dice. That's an 11. 
ROBBIE: Ooh! 
MATT: That's an 11. 
LIAM: Doing okay. 
AIMEE: (laughs) 
MATT: There are streaks down her face and across the neck, that of almost dried ink that was turned liquid under sweat and work, and then left to re-dry. Smeared streaks of black, the crown itself, still standing, with two arms, as opposed to the four that you had seen in the final moments. 
TRAVIS: Jesus. 
ROBBIE: Okay, okay. 
MATT: Though, you, based on your particular trajectory and choices, can guide the remainder of your disposition. 
AIMEE: So I think the first thing, well, Orym's on top of-- 
LIAM: Well, Orym yelled, "Ma," leapt down-- 
AIMEE: Oh. Aw. 
LIAM: Started darting through soldiers' legs, and bait and switch bumps Opal back and puts his hand out-- 
AIMEE: (gasps) 
LIAM: -- towards all the people surrounding her. We're not going to do this right now. Too much has happened. She's with us. Settle. 
AIMEE: (gasps) 
LIAM: Ease down. Hey, Ma. 
ASHLEY: I start booking it over. 
AIMEE: Nancy! 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
AIMEE: I pick you up Oh, my Nancy! 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
AIMEE: Oh, it's so good to see you. I'm sorry about my appearance, but I looked worse than this. 
LAURA: Nancy? 
ROBBIE: We have inside jokes, too. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
AIMEE: Then do I see Fearne? (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I'm running over. (laughter) Oh my god! 
AIMEE: Fearne! 
ASHLEY: Hi! 
AIMEE: I give her a big, big, big hug. 
ASHLEY: I pick her up off the ground and shower her with kisses all over. 
AIMEE: Oh. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god, I missed you so bad. 
AIMEE: Then I grab both of you really, really tight, and then I look over at Dorian. 
ROBBIE: I'm on the outside circle, like always, just drinking it in. Hi. 
AIMEE: (barely audible) I'm so sorry. 
ROBBIE: It's okay. 
AIMEE: It's not. 
ROBBIE: It will be. Are you back? 
AIMEE: I'm back. (chuckles) 
ROBBIE: You're back back? 
AIMEE: I think so. I don't hear anything in my head, except for your friend. Who was that? 
LAURA: Hi. 
AIMEE: Hi. 
ASHLEY: Oh, yes. Did we-- 
ROBBIE: Oh! Yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! Guys, come on, come on, come on. 
AIMEE: Oh? 
TRAVIS: She got shit on her face. What's-- 
ROBBIE: It used to be an evil, black ichor, of the betrayer goddess, it's-- 
AIMEE: I get a little-- 
ROBBIE: I think it's gone. I think she's okay. 
AIMEE: A little spit, try to clean it up a little bit. 
MARISHA: I like it. 
TALIESIN: No, the vibe is good. 
SAM: No. It's a-- 
TALIESIN: The vibe is-- 
SAM: -- really great aesthetic. 
AIMEE: Are you the one that fell? 
ROBBIE: You take it easy-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah, that was me. You're Opal? 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I've heard a lot about you. Hi. 
AIMEE: Hi. 
TALIESIN: It's a pleasure, wow! 
AIMEE: Hey, you look great for falling out of the sky. 
TALIESIN: You look great for-- 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: -- avatar of a spider goddess. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: It's really working. 
LAURA: I go up and shake your hand. Do you want-- 
TALIESIN: Wow! 
LAURA: -- me to clean you up at all? 
AIMEE: That would be amazing. 
LAURA: I'll Prestidigitation and clean her up. 
AIMEE: Oh, that's so nice! 
LAURA: So you feel a little fresh. 
AIMEE: I feel so fresh. My pits have stunk for weeks. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I give them a sniff. (laughter) 
AIMEE: Musky! (laughter) 
AIMEE: I think now she's still got the crown on, but it's maybe Opal at the end of EXU, where it wasn't gooey, it was just herself. Two different colored eyes, her hair is maybe looking freshly washed, (laughter) and-- 
LIAM: Just a young, fresh face from Byroden. 
AIMEE: Twice-crowned Queen of Byroden. I think that she has a lot to say, but doesn't really know where to start, so I think she'll say: What happened to the gods? I mean, I talked to my bitch, but she's generally unpleasant. 
LAURA: What did she say? 
SAM: Did she say goodbye? 
LIAM: Yeah, I think we're curious to know what you heard before we fill you in. 
AIMEE: Well, she had an attitude. 
LIAM: (laughs) 
AIMEE: What do you think, Matt? Should I-- 
LAURA: (laughs) 
AIMEE: -- say what I think, or do you have something, a flashback or something? 
MATT: Here. 
AIMEE: (gasps) 
ROBBIE: Ohh! 
MARISHA: Whispers! 
ROBBIE: Whispers! 
ASHLEY: Whispers! 
LIAM: Do the thing! 
ROBBIE: Is that still something? 
SAM: I'm not supposed to read this until combat. 
ROBBIE: Don't do it, don't do it! 
SAM: This whisper is brought to you by WizKids, (laughter) 
SAM: -- and their Bells Hells box set, available now. Enhance your home games with Critical Role Minis by WizKids, available at wizkids.io/crminis and your local game store. 
ROBBIE: Oh, man. 
AIMEE: Well, she said I was still bound to her, and that I would be forever. I thought-- And you see just a flash of maybe an alignment shift for her. She's Opal, but she's been changed. These last few weeks, she's seen more carnage and violence, and she's perpetuated that carnage and violence in a way that, really, I don't think she has processed, and it will take a long time. But there's that glint of, and I don't mind that so much. She told me to come look for her, because she was going to be reborn. I thought, as a little baby? As a tiny, vulnerable, little bug? So little, so corruptible, so unprotected? I said: Okay, I'll come find you, for Cyrus. 
ROBBIE: A part of Dorian, in his moment when we were first together, where his alignment first shifts, catches it in her eye. And just for a second, the two of them are dialed in on some unspeakable idea. 
AIMEE: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: Laudna has a nervous laugh. (laughter) You spooky! You're spooky. (laughs) 
AIMEE: You're spooky, too. 
MARISHA: Yes, yes. I go, Ah! I paint my face in black ichor to kind of look like Opal a minute ago. (laughter) 
AIMEE: Ah! (screams) (laughter) 
MARISHA: You're very pretty. 
AIMEE: You're pretty too. 
TRAVIS: I have to make sure I didn't-- 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: I'm alive. 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LIAM: Come a long way from the Byroden Fair. 
AIMEE: We're just missing one. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Something tells me he's just fine. Or is he? 
MATT: Mm (I don't know). Have to go to Zephrah to find him. 
ROBBIE: All right. 
MATT: It's at this moment that the guard has begun to guide you towards the Platinum Sanctuary itself, and while they've been tolerant of your presence based on the company you keep, as you begin to step to within the antechamber, there are spears and blades put between you and Opal, and the guard saying, "We appreciate your presence, but we cannot let the champion of the Spider Queen into our sanctum." 
AIMEE: Oh. I understand. 
MARISHA: Should we go somewhere else where we won't have to keep dealing with this? 
LAURA: I don't think we have much choice at the moment. 
ROBBIE: Above table, Orym, who has the other half of the Sending Stone? 
LIAM: Not you and me, but-- 
ROBBIE: We gave it to someone. 
LIAM: (exhales) 
ROBBIE: Fuck. I lost it. 
LIAM: I don't remember. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, me either. All right. But we only have one. 
LIAM: I flat out don't remember. 
ROBBIE: Do you have the other half? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: You gave it to someone? 
ROBBIE: We did, yeah. 
LIAM: Somebody so we'd get in touch with them. 
ROBBIE: We'll figure it out. Can we give it to Opal, the one we have? 
LAURA: Well, Opal will be able to talk to whoever you gave it to. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: I don't know who you gave it to. 
ROBBIE: Find the other half. Yeah, well, we can't remember, but Dorian and Orym will. 
MATT: (laughs) 
LIAM: Right. 
ROBBIE: (sighs) 
LIAM: Grace for us in this crazy-ass week. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: At the very least, I will take a moment for the guard to walk up with-- 
MARISHA: Dani is typing. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Caleb. 
TALIESIN: -- ruin of whatever face I have right now. 
LAURA: No, it wasn't Caleb. It was-- 
ROBBIE: Caleb? It wasn't? 
LAURA: It wasn't. 
TALIESIN: If we find out that you have-- 
SAM: Ssh, ssh, ssh. 
TALIESIN: -- misplaced a single hair from beneath that crown, we will be very upset. We want her treated like family. Is that understood? 
MATT: Make an intimidation check. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
ASHLEY: Guidance. 
MATT: (wheezes) (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I'm helpful. 
SAM: And very pretty. 
ASHLEY: Thank you. 
TALIESIN: 24. 
LAURA: Oh! 
AIMEE: Ooh. 
MATT: The guard steps back and glances at her, glances at you, glances at the weird, spectral darkness that sits, gleaming from the side of your skull. Then back to you. "We just protect our sanctum, that's all." (nervously clears throat) 
AIMEE: Thank you. 
MATT: But as Opal awaits outside, the rest of your troop is gathered within, where discussions of what to do about the remaining Ruidians progress. So as opposed to roleplaying a six-plus hour long (laughter) courtroom drama to-do here. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: You all have your perspectives, your contacts, and understand that the majority of the populace was in transit to where the Bloody Bridge was, or had begun to make the trek before, or was about to make the trek before the war began for the Bloody Bridge itself. So there is an entire population of currently mid-caravan roaming status. mid-caravan roaming status. What do you think is to be done with the Reilorans, the Bormodos, the Cytaas, the Quanikkas? What do you think? 
LIAM: I guess we're going a little larger picture here? 
MATT: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Was there group-by-group allegiance, or was it pretty mixed? 
LAURA: It was pretty mixed. 
TALIESIN: Pretty mixed. 
SAM: And they're all still up there. 
LAURA: They're on the moon still, but-- 
TRAVIS: Blow up the moon. 
LAURA: They were dreaming-- 
ASHLEY: Chet! 
LAURA: -- the blue dream. They wanted to be-- 
TRAVIS: Only way to be sure. 
ASHLEY: I mean, I feel like we should let them decide what they want to do. 
SAM: Do we have a-- 
ASHLEY: Isn't there-- 
SAM: Do we even have a means of bringing them here? 
LAURA: Well, we have the back door. 
LIAM: Slower. I think probably should advise slow exchange program, and you know, emissaries in both directions, and, you know, in the spirit of peace, trying to figure out this new-- They're technically distant relatives. And that's how we should frame it. 
MARISHA: They're Exandrians. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MARISHA: They were Exandrians first. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
ROBBIE: They should be given the opportunity, I mean-- 
MARISHA: Yes. 
ROBBIE: -- a chance, if they want. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: But if there's so many of them, someone will need to receive them, accept them, give them shelter. They can't be refugees in the middle of the desert. 
LAURA: No. 
ROBBIE: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: I mean, there is the town around that lake, I suppose, but-- 
LAURA: That was empty, but that's not enough. 
SAM: No. 
LAURA: But it could be a good start. 
ASHLEY: It could be a great-- 
ROBBIE: Forward operating base. 
MARISHA: I imagine each city could essentially sponsor. 
SAM: They'd have to agree to it, though. 
MARISHA: Well, yes, but I think we could learn a great deal from the Ruidians. 
LIAM: They're in a real state of flux, too, because they've been released from under the boot of a long, long, long standing power structure-- 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: -- that is absent. 
SAM: Are all the leaders still here in Vasselheim, or are they spread out now? 
MATT: The majority of them. It's not the size of the council where you first sold your plot to head to the core of Ruidus. I might say about two thirds of it remains. Others either are still out and about, or weren't convened in this council. 
SAM: Is there some sort of network that connects all of the major hubs of this world? Some sort of crisis network that we could use to reach out? 
MATT: Oddly, there is. 
SAM: Oh! (laughter) 
MATT: Upon calling, if you wish, it's not a hard ask as some of the representatives were already present in Vasselheim. And upon this council, Vex'ahlia Vessar is present, along with the rest of her heroic troop, Vox Machina. Lady Allura, indeed, is present, and other representatives from other main cities are contactable through the crisis orbs. So they are brought to bear, as well as many other allies of this endeavor. Members of the Mighty Nein who had also gone towards the core of Ruidis and were part of the assault on the Weave Mind are present to help fight this argument, as well, but you have the attention of many major metropolitan areas across the world. 
LAURA: (Vex) Whitestone has often been a beacon of hope for those seeking refuge against violence. I know Percival and myself would be more than happy to accept several families from Ruidus, however many we can support. 
TRAVIS: (Grog) I want to live on the moon. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Sorry, it's not my turn yet, is it? Dibs. Dibs! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Whoops. 
MARISHA: (Keyleth) That's actually an interesting idea, though, Grog. 
TRAVIS: What? (laughs) 
MARISHA: Well, I'm saying I know, personally, the Ashari are very well-versed in guarding gateways to other dimensions, and I don't see this being much different than what the Ashari are already doing. We could maybe continue to have the Ashari stationed in that lake town in Issylra, and I think it's worth having some Exandrians help out with this transition on Ruidus as well. 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
LIAM: Above-- 
MARISHA: Good idea, Grog. 
LIAM: Above table, I can't think of a better end for Grog than being warden of the moon. (laughter) 
LAURA: Grog and Yaz together! (laughter) 
TALIESIN and MARISHA: Oh! 
LIAM: It's like-- 
ASHLEY: Gaz! 
LIAM: It's like something-- 
LAURA: Gaz, Gaz! 
MATT: We'll come back to this. (laughter) 
MATT: We'll come back to this. 
LIAM: It's like something out of Planet Hulk. It's so good. 
MARISHA: Yes! 
MATT: We'll come back to this. 
ASHLEY: Great ambassador. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: (Percy) There's so much that we have to offer each other, as well. 
LAURA: Hm? 
TALIESIN: I, for one, would love to see what the surface of Ruidus is like. I think that there is a world where this sort of exchange would be phenomenal. 
MARISHA: (Beau) Yeah, uh, Beauregard Lionett here. Hi. Just from our brief time there, they have a lot of fucked up science shit, so I feel like, you know, all you other science bitches, you can maybe go help with that or learn some shit. I don't know. 
LAURA: I just lost my husband to the moon. Thank you very much, Beauregard. 
TALIESIN: Go on. 
SAM: (laughs) 
MARISHA: I'm-- 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Maybe it's a great vacation. You could have a summer home there; I don't know. You're rich, you'll figure it out. 
TRAVIS: (Fjord) What exactly is a science bitch? 
ASHLEY: (Yasha) It's cool there, you know? 
MARISHA: I don't know, people who like science and shit. 
MATT: Allura sits forward. "Anyway, indeed, we can begin communications." To her right, you see Evoroa step forward as well. "I've been speaking with our resident Ruidian aide throughout this recent successful endeavor in safeguarding the Pantheon and future of Exandria. I think the least we can do is begin a process of working with them. There are many places in Exandria that likely are a bit too challenging for most to find home, whereas the Ruidians have quite a knack for making the inhospitable hospitable. With the aid of the Ashari, there are means of magical terraforming, and at least we can all step forward with the idea of trying to make this work." 
LIAM: (Caleb) Ja, it is a great opportunity for an exchange of knowledge and history. Hundreds, thousands of years of history, above and below." 
SAM: (Veth) Well, what about the bad ones? There were some bad ones too, right? 
LIAM: Here on Exandria, you mean? 
SAM: No-- Well, yes, of course. A lot on Exandria, but up there. 
LIAM: That's the point. 
LAURA: (Jester) Well, it's not like we can say: Oh, all the bad ones stay up there and only the good ones can come down here. That's so mean. 
SAM: You're right, but I-- 
LAURA: I think we just let it, like an open pathway, you know. Whoever wants to come, they can come, and then whoever-- 
SAM: Just forgiveness? Blanket-- 
LAURA: Well I mean, how are we going to know? What are we going to do, a vetting process or something? That's so fucked up. 
TRAVIS: (Fjord) Yeah. I mean, after all, we should aid in however people are getting back and forth from the moon. 
LAURA: Yeah! 
TRAVIS: They'll want to come here. People will want to go there. Maybe establish some trade. 
MATT: J'mon Sa Ord, from upon their temporary throne with their Ank'Harel associates at the sides, steps up. "We have taken quite a large number of prisoners. We have many who briefly fought against us underneath the Weave Mind's intent. I believe they should be held accountable for their violence against our people. 
LAURA: Were they choosing to fight against you or was the Weave Mind forcing them to fight against you? 
MATT: "We have a number of individuals that can see how far this influence might have pressed them. Should they be truthful, there is always a path to redemption. For many of us are aware of our own histories of imposed ruling will. So we agree, a path of redemption to even those who met us on the battlefield, yes?" 
LAURA: (Imogen) Redemption. Yes. 
TALIESIN: (Caduceus) What a gift. The chance to let someone live in their dream. Redemption. 
MATT: Evoroa steps forward. "Huh. I hadn't even thought about that. Do we get to have our own dreams now?" 
LAURA: Only one way to find out. 
MARISHA: (Laudna) Evoroa, do you think the other Ruidians will be open to this exchange of knowledge? 
MATT: "I'm sure some will. I'm sure some others will be probably reticent."  
MARISHA: Perhaps you could be the ambassador! 
MATT: "Oh, I'm a researcher. I'm not a--" 
MARISHA: No! You're so smart, though. You're, like, so smart. 
TALIESIN: (Percy) For those who don't wish to come to Exandria, we can possibly bring a bit of Exandria up to Ruidus as well. 
LAURA: (Jester) I could be an ambassador. 
TALIESIN: Who? Oh, it's you. 
LAURA: I could totally be an ambassador. 
LIAM: You are correct. 
TRAVIS: Well Jester, that's a big responsibility. I mean, are you sure? 
MARISHA: (Beau) I mean, you guys are pirates. Why not be moon pirates? Ah, that's so cool! 
LAURA: Space pirates. 
MARISHA: Space pirates! 
TRAVIS: Moon franchise. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
TRAVIS: This is brilliant! 
MARISHA: (gasps) 
LAURA: I mean yeah, we're totally ambassadors. 
MARISHA: Do you think they would like a Beaurebar on the moon? I'm just saying. 
LAURA: Everybody would like a Beaurebar. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: "(pointedly clears throat)" An echoing throat clearing-- 
LIAM: Moon pirate is very close to butt pirate. 
MATT: -- reverberates throughout the massive hall of the Platinum Sanctuary as the Mighty Nein is loudly discussing their franchise interests. (laughter) 
LIAM: Enjoy my Taste of Tal'Dorei T-shirt. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Let's franchise! 
MATT: That's the first thing that gets built on Ruidus. 
LAURA: Isn't it this fucking awesome, though? 
TRAVIS: Oh, it is! 
MATT: That is. 
TALIESIN: Hey! 
MATT: That's a real thing? 
LAURA: That's a real thing! 
ASHLEY: Yeah, it's a real thing. 
LAURA: That's out there. That's out. 
MATT: That's awesome. 
TALIESIN: Good lord. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LAURA: You got to show it off. I'm so proud of it. 
MATT: Mid-episode merch drop. Well done, Laura. 
LAURA: Sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: When did we get those? As I wear an Ashton jacket. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: Evoroa goes, "Well, we'll see how many of my contacts survived the struggles. I can think of a few figures of the Volition and abroad that would be very suited to try and set this up." She looks around the rest of the quiet council that all sit still. I would like three of you from any of your present troops to roll a persuasion check for me. 
MARISHA: Oh! 
ROBBIE: Ooh! 
MARISHA: Who's got the best? 
ASHLEY: I feel like-- 
TRAVIS: Persuasion, huh? 
ASHLEY: I feel like we should pick the ones-- 
TRAVIS: Call out those mods, y'all. 
ASHLEY: -- with the best-- 
LIAM: Caleb is in. 
LAURA: Imogen! 
MATT: All right. 
ASHLEY: Fearne? 
MARISHA: Hang on, hang on, hang on. I wasn't ready for this. 
LAURA: Fearne is really high. 
TRAVIS: Let's see. Plus zero. 
ROBBIE: Fearne's great. 
LAURA: Fearne's great. Braius is great. 
TRAVIS: Plus one. 
SAM: Scanlan is-- 
LAURA: Scanlan! Is Scanlan present? 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
SAM: Apparently they're all here. 
LAURA: Scanlan. 
MATT: Vox Machina-- 
TRAVIS: -- is a horse's ass. 
MATT: -- returned after the battle. 
LAURA: That's one from each campaign. 
SAM: It feels unfair to use Scanlan. But sure, let's do it. 
LIAM: Yes! 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah! 
ASHLEY: Do it! Do it! 
MATT: Well, that's the point then. For each of you that's going to make this roll, I want you to make your case. 
SAM: Oh shit. 
LAURA: Oh fuck. 
ROBBIE: Oh boy. 
SAM: That's harder. (laughter) 
MARISHA: I need to look up Keyleth. Hang on. I don't remember. 
MATT: I wanted to give you a moment to try and find your sheets, but for each person that's rolling, I want you to make your case before you roll. 
MARISHA: D&D Beyond is waking up. 
MATT: Because that will affect the DC. Also, characters arguing for this that have some semblance of stake. Doesn't mean Scanlan can't roll, but I'm really curious to hear Scanlan's perspective on this. 
SAM: I am, too. (laughter) 
AIMEE: Mass deportation. (laughter) 
MATT: Huh? That's a weird avenue to take here. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Super hard. 
ASHLEY: Oh, maybe because I'm not connected. 
MARISHA: Keyleth has a plus six. It's kind of-- 
TRAVIS: Sit down. 
MARISHA: It's okay. 
SAM: Yeah, but she actually cares about this shit. 
MARISHA: That's true. I can try for it. 
TALIESIN: I was going to say, yeah. 
MARISHA: Anyone else better? 
TALIESIN: I've got a plus eight, but that's okay. 
ROBBIE: From Vox Machina? 
TALIESIN: Keyleth is probably a little bit more invested in this. 
LAURA: Do you want Vex to? (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I know, it's all the-- 
ROBBIE: Negative one. Cerkonos has got this. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: All right. So who do we have? 
LAURA: Wait, no. Vex isn't that great. 
SAM: Braius can step forward. 
ROBBIE: Ooh. 
MATT: Braius steps forward. 
SAM: Yes. 
MATT: Who else? 
LIAM: Caleb. 
MATT: Caleb. 
LAURA: Imogen. 
MATT: And Imogen. 
LAURA: If that's okay. 
ASHLEY: Yes, of course. 
MARISHA: Yeah. Go for it. One from each. 
MATT: Three people that have been to the moon-- 
MARISHA: Oh wait. No one from-- 
MATT: -- and have had experiences with Ruidians of various sides. Very well. Which of you steps forward first? 
LIAM: (Caleb) The world that we have known until now has been shaken thoroughly like a snow globe. It's far too soon to understand the lay of the land, what the meaning of today's events is. It is premature to form any sort of stance against our neighbors above. While some, we are hearing, were involved in efforts against us here at home, speaking from personal experience, outside influence is a real thing. We are all responsible for our own actions, but I would ask that those present get a fresh start-- 
LAURA: Maybe I shouldn't do it. 
LIAM: -- with new family. If there was ever a time for a fresh start, it is now. 
MATT: All right. 
LIAM: Bitte. 
MATT: Roll a persuasion check. 
TRAVIS: Bitte. 
LIAM: 25. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. 
MATT: Very well. Who steps forward next? 
SAM: (Braius) I shall step forward. It's been a crazy six days. (laughter) 
SAM: In the last six days, I've been to two planets, three continents, and four ethereal realms. (laughter) 
SAM: I've talked to the gods, I met a God-eater, met aliens-- (laughter) 
SAM: -- robots, werewolves. 
LIAM: Robot werewolves. 
SAM: I think I-- I think I fucked a monster. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: A Fatestitcher. (laughter) 
SAM: But in all of those travels, the one thing that I've noticed is that everybody just wants... They all want the same thing. They just want safety, security, and the ability to pursue their dreams, whether or not they have them. I've also learned a lot about redemption in the last few days and I hope that we recognize that all these people, even if they live on a different planet, are more or less the same as us and we give them the chance that we give ourselves. 
MATT: Roll a persuasion check. 
SAM: Not great. 
LIAM: Plus a billion? 
ASHLEY: Plus a lot. 
SAM: 22. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
MATT: 22, okay. 
TRAVIS: Double check. 
MATT: Imogen, you're last. 
SAM: That's a six, right? Yeah. 
LAURA: When we first stepped foot on Ruidus, I didn't know what to expect. I had a vision in my head of a red storm, lifeless. of a red storm, lifeless. But upon arriving, we ran into a village of people just trying to get by, raising cattle and helping their neighbors. We went into the city, and I saw two small children laughing together and frightened upon seeing these new strangers. Above all, the people there dreamt of a chance. They dreamt of hope. The Blue Dream, that's what they called this place. We, as Exandrians, we have the chance to give that to them, to give them their home back. Something that was stolen away so long ago. You have the power in this room right now to give them a new life. I hope you use that power for good. 
MATT: Roll your persuasion check. 
ASHLEY: Guidance. 
LAURA: Whoa! 
MATT and MARISHA: (laugh) 
LAURA: Okay, all right. There are so many options here. 
SAM: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Who's fault is that? 
MATT: (laughs) 
LAURA: Which one? 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
LAURA: Which beautiful dice? Which beautiful dice are we going with? 
LIAM: The one with the numbers on it. 
AIMEE: Teacup. 
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to go-- 
TRAVIS: Yeah. (shatters teacup) 
LAURA: I'm going to go with this pretty one. 
LAURA: No. 
LIAM: (Orym) You're right by me. 
LAURA: Oh, thank god. 
MATT: Was that a one? 
ASHLEY: Oh, it was a one. 
LIAM: One. 
MATT: Oh my god. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. Oh, and Guidance. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: (silly) Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
TRAVIS: That's crazy. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
ROBBIE: That's what friends are for. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
TRAVIS: A small friend. 
LAURA: That's only 23. 
ASHLEY: Only? 
TALIESIN: Only 23. I know. 
SAM: If I could just say one more thing. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
SAM: Not about the Ruidians. Just while everyone's gathered, I just want to say I'm sorry I tried to betray you all. 
MARISHA: (Laudna) Oh, yes. You know, we should talk about this not in front of the council. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: No, but I feel like this is a good-- 
ASHLEY: (Fearne) We're going to deal with that later. 
SAM: -- this is a good place to do it because you can't hurt me here. 
ASHLEY: No. (laughter) 
MARISHA: We can hurt you later. 
ROBBIE: (Dorian) We could hurt. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
SAM: Later, but here, you can't. 
MARISHA: Yes, well-- 
LIAM: We're surrounded by some of the most powerful people in the world right now. They could end you with a blink of an eye. 
SAM: All right, we'll table this then. 
MARISHA: We'll table it. (laughter) 
MATT: A few eyes glance head-long to each other with a confused head tilt or a bit of a murmur. About this time, a strange figure steps from the nearby crowd, swathed in dusty cloths. You see the familiar face of a hood pulled back of Planerider Ryn, who steps out to join you all. 
ROBBIE: Nice. 
MATT: (Ryn) "I've been there as well myself and some time there without even realizing it. But many of you know of my journeys and I can indeed back up their perspectives. As far as relocation, there are few who can traverse as quickly and with as much breadth as I can. I am willing to volunteer myself as part of the Ruidian Relocation Program. If that is now a name for it," and looks over at other people. The council are like-- 
SAM: The RP? 
MATT: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Oh yeah. (laughter) 
MARISHA: G. 
MATT: "But there are means of doing this in a structured, methodical, safe, and comfortable way." Looks over to J'mon, "And within our respective sense of justice." There is some whispered discussion as some of the figures convene and talk. Some of the crisis orbs and means of communication between the various cities glow, and eventually the council returns to their seats. The Dawn Marshals and various representatives of city states and communities from around Exandria. (Ophera) "A number of communities here have agreed. As such, the Ruidians will be granted a means of living amongst us. It will take time," as Ophera grasps her staff,  "and indeed an exchange of knowledge. For their comfort as much as ours, we wish to know more about them." Looks over at Evoroa. (Evoroa) "To be honest, we actually probably know a lot about you all. We've been living in your dreams since we were born. You'd be surprised, maybe, how comfortable we already would be here." Steps back. (Ophera) "The lake town will become a bastion of transference. The cities that have agreed, Ank'Harel, Emon, Jrusar, Byroden." 
LAURA: Whitestone. 
MATT: "Whitestone, Aeshanadoor." 
MARISHA: Zephrah. 
MATT: "Zephrah." "Port Zoon." One-by-one, city names from across Exandria begin to speak up. Not all of them, but enough to be a start. That sense of hope begins to swell in the room. With that, some brief conversations and pats on the back. Some hands shaking, some odd stares from across the room and some still mistrusting or uncertain dispositions passing you by with a long glance. The council begins to break from within the chambers. Once more, Bells Hells is left to exit out into the night where there, indeed, Opal still stands. 
AIMEE: I think Opal's been listening in. Who's from Byroden? 
LAURA: Oh, um. 
AIMEE: Oh, I know--! I know you! Wow! There's a statue of you. 
LAURA: In Byroden? 
AIMEE: Yeah. Have you ever heard of the Gem of Byroden competition? I feel like that could be a really, really good way to introduce some of the Ruid-- I'm sorry, I was listening in. It could be a really great way to introduce them to the culture, and you probably haven't been in a long time, but there is a pie contest that you would go crazy for. 
LAURA: Oh, no, I remember the pie contest. 
AIMEE: Oh, you do? 
LAURA: Visit Whitestone. We'll talk. 
TALIESIN: Yes, please. 
AIMEE: Okay! Okay. Sorry. (laughter) 
MATT: But indeed, you all can't help but consider the immensity of what has transpired and what small part or big part you've played in it from the beginning. What elements of it were fate, what elements of it were choice, what elements were just riding the waves of chaos? But you can almost feel the city, the world itself, collectively exhale and prepare themselves for what comes next, whatever that may be. So to that point, Orym, what's up for you soon? You can rest, if you'd like to. 
AIMEE: Okay! (clapping) 
LAURA: Mwah! 
ASHLEY: (kissy noises) 
AIMEE: Love you, love you, love you. Thanks! 
MARISHA: The Twice-Crowned. 
ALL: Twice-Crowned! 
ROBBIE: Two times! 
SAM: I send a message to Opal. 
ROBBIE: (rolled r) Three times! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Augh! 
LIAM: Well, I have a small task and then the larger. 
MATT: Certainly. 
LIAM: The small is if we're talking like the coming days and weeks at this point? 
MATT: Yeah. And however soon or thereafter you want to be, we're now taking little vignettes of time in the aftermath of this shift, this change. I want to know what's next for you. 
LIAM: Well, I need to find the Tempest, but she's busy moving mountains. So, before I seek her out on this day, in the next couple of days, I'm going to seek out Ryn. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. Ryn is easy enough to find. Ryn is in the process of a deep series of discussions. They're laying out drawn maps that seem to lay out interpretations of the Ruidian cityscapes, townships. The path to where the Bloody Bridge once was, to where this is. They're basically building out a plan. There are, as you step into the tent where she is, you see Rashinna of the Golden Hammer is present, representative and leader of the Volition as part of this. As they are talking, as you step in, stop and turn and Rashinna goes, "Ah, hello there, Orym." 
LIAM: Amazing, welcome. How long have you been with us? 
MATT: "Only but a day. We're in the early stages," and looks to Ryn and they both raise an eyebrow, "but we're making headway it seems." 
LIAM: Looks like you've got your work cut out for you. 
MATT: "As far as I understand, we've all had our work cut out for us for some time. So not a massive change, just a shift in responsibility. To be honest, I much prefer this than skulking around and constantly under the threat of death." 
LIAM: Well, I'm 3'3", but I have high hopes. 
MATT: "I see what you did there. (chuckles)" Ryn looks over, "And how can we help you, little Orym?" 
LIAM: I'm sorry to interrupt your work. I was wondering if you would take a walk with me. 
MATT: "If you don't mind." "Of course not, I need to speak out to some of my compatriots anyway." Then Ryn steps out and puts her hand on your shoulder and begins walking with you out. 
LIAM: I'm going to start leading us towards a garden in the city that I've already scoped out at this point. I can't tell you how-- I don't know what's going on. -how grateful and all the twists and turns of the last few months that you made it out the other side of this. I know so much of where things shook out is out of our control, but I have felt bad all this time that you went through what you did and I was hoping you'd let me help you and to facilitate that, this is a funny thing to say in light of recent events, but would you have a sit with me and pray a little bit? 
MATT: "Pray?" (chuckles) 
LIAM: I can lead things if that's okay. 
MATT: They raise their one arm and, "Who am I to say no? If there was a better time to pray, perhaps it's when no one's listening." (chuckles) She sits next to you and says, "And believe you me, I've been through far worse. But I have you and your friends to thank for seeing me through the other side. Is that not right?" 
LIAM: Did the best we could. 
MATT: "Didn't we all?" 
LIAM: And with that- 
MATT: "How does this prayer thing work?" 
LIAM: Well, Orym is going to unsheathe Seedling and gently rest it on Ryn's lap and take hold of Ryn's hand. He's going to start to, he relinquishes or releases Seedling from himself, and he rests Ryn's hand on the blade. Don't cut yourself it's sharp, but keep it here. 
MATT: "Who am I praying to exactly?" 
LIAM: Well, we are praying to the Wildmother. 
MATT: "Hm." 
LIAM: I don't know where you are if you are waiting to be born, if you know what's coming, if you'll remember all that's happened, but I hope for the best. I hope we can walk side by side in this world together. I have faith we can. And Orym will pray with Ryn long enough for Ryn to attune to the blade and have its regenerative properties as Orym Druidcrafts little fey tendrils of vinery and greenery over Ryn's hand and the blade and up Ryn's torso and around her neck and over the area where Ryn's arm broke off until it slowly, bit by bit, first in vegetation, which congeals and firms up into flesh until Ryn's arm is whole. 
MATT: Ryn begins, "I'm not really one for prayer necessarily. I don't even know quite how to begin. But I can tell a story, stories I can do. Stories I can definitely muster. I've seen a lot in my time." And begins to go into discussions of her youth and the travel that they've done across the realms. The incredible gorgeous plumes of unreal color and light bursting at the edges of where the various elemental realms collide. The deepest depths of the Abyss and what horrors gurgle there, as well as what beautiful nightmares exist in the most vibrant peaks of the Fey. The dream and belief of worlds beyond, even the realms that they know. A great cosmic expanse in which Exandria's but one of many worlds with different threads to share and differences to celebrate. And a hope of one day even seeing them and getting lost in their storytelling. Eventually, they open their eyes and see the vine-wrapped facsimile of their lost arm and they smile. (chuckles) 
LIAM: I love a good story. 
MATT: "Well, many more where that came from," and she goes to brush off the vines that you've created this image of the lost arm. As they do, they break off and the new arm has reformed in its place and you see Ryn kind of, "(laughs) Clever." And then ruffles your hair like a child. 
TRAVIS and LAURA: (laugh) 
MATT: "(laughs) Hmm-hmm! Very, very clever, I like it." 
LIAM: Well, you're going to have your hands full with everything you got to do so-- 
MATT: "Indeed, can you make two more?" 
LIAM: (laughs) (sighs) We can pray. 
MATT: "(laughs) I think I've had enough prayer for one day, but thank you, I greatly appreciate it, Orym. (sighs) I guess I can finally cook." 
LIAM: Let Ryn cook. 
MATT and TRAVIS: (chuckle) 
LIAM: In the larger picture, Orym would seek out the Voice of The Tempest. 
MATT: All right. At this time, the Voice of The Tempest has returned to Zephrah. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: To begin to make plans with the rest of the Ashari. So those of you that would wish to trek with you to Zephrah can do so. 
LIAM: I don't know what the group wants, Orym will have to talk to The Tempest about what he hopes to do with his life. So, everyone's welcome to come and Zephrah and chill if you want. Or can just put it off until people do things here. I don't want to-- 
TRAVIS: I have a protégé to train, so I'll probably be here, bearing the weight of unfathomable responsibility. 
MATT: (laughs) All right. It's a little timey-wimey here. 
LIAM: Okay, so we can jump back and forwards? 
MATT: We can jump around. This is immediate vignettes towards distant vignettes, but we can tackle a few immediate moments people want to do. So we'll come back to you on your trek to Zephrah here in a moment. 
LIAM: Great. 
MATT: So we're holding onto that. In the immediate moment, while Vasselheim is still in the process of these early stages, anybody else have any pressing matters here in the city? 
MARISHA: I would like to try and find Lieve'tel or any other temple maidens of the Raven, the Matron of Ravens. 
MATT: Indeed the Raven's Crest Temple still remains and upon assembling the steps, you are greeted by some of the veiled maidens of the Matron. Stepping within its corridors, it doesn't take long for Lieve'tel to meet you partway. 
MARISHA: Do you want to come with me? 
LAURA: Of course. 
MARISHA: Hello. 
MATT: Lieve'tel? 
LAURA: Oh. 
LIAM: (Lieve'tel) Hello, dear. (laughter) 
MARISHA: You said you saw something in me. You vouched for me in front of the council. No one else wanted anything to do with me. I'm curious what you still see in me. I pull out the Matron of Raven mask that she gave me. That she gave Braius. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: That I stole from Braius. That he then stole from me. Anyway. 
MATT: (laughs) 
SAM: I pull out the real one. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: (gasps) Not again! 
SAM: I made a copy of a copy! (maniacal laugh) (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Oldest trick in the book. 
MATT: It looks noticeably shittier. (laughter) 
LIAM: It's made of chocolate. 
MATT and MARISHA: Yeah. 
SAM: It's a paper plate with some eyes cut in it. (laughter) 
MARISHA: When we spoke with the Matron, honestly, she was pretty ambiguous about my future. I was wondering if you could give some context. Where do I lie? 
LIAM: Would you like to stay with us for a while? 
MARISHA: How long's a while? 
LIAM: As long as you like. You can visit and the offer is good now or down the road. 
MARISHA: Will I ever be whole again? Will I be like this for forever? Especially with the Matron being gone, is-- She was the one who walked souls between life and death and now I feel even more like, just out of place. 
LAURA: I hold your hand. 
LIAM: Well, and Lieve runs her hand over the contours of the mask in your hand and then she raises her hand to your face. Everything is new again, just like every day of our lives. A lot to figure out. But you seem fairly whole to me, love. And while the heavens have changed, you stand here still. Tomorrow is promised for none of us. So in that way, you seem very much like every soul I've ever met in all my many days. 
LAURA: But what about her long life? Laudna hasn't aged for a long time. 
MARISHA: I would love more than anything to age alongside the one that I love, if she'll have me. Feels like a fraught wish that many think that they want long life, to never die, to live for eternity, but having been in that limbo, in that in-between space, to age is a gift. And I don't want to be left behind. 
LIAM: Tell me, child, are you sure? 
MARISHA: I've had my time. I've had more than enough time in this lingering uncertainty. I just want to know one way or the other. When I went on this whole journey, I honestly hoped for death in many ways. It wasn't until I found Imogen that my mind changed. But it's not fair to me and it's not fair to her. It's really not fair to her to have to-- 
LAURA: Get old and pruny. 
MARISHA and LAURA: (chuckle) 
MARISHA: And love you no matter what. 
LIAM: Give me your hands, ladies. 
LAURA: Mine, too? 
LIAM: Yes. As you hold your hands together, the three of us linked, I squeeze both of your hands, and I look into Laudna's eyes, and I use Divine Intervention. 
LAURA: Does it still work? 
LIAM: I don't know. 
LAURA: Oh fuck. 
LIAM: So that she will age and die the same as Imogen Temult. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Yes, yes, yes! Best expression! That's what it's all about. Best expression. Yes. 
MARISHA: Woo! 
TRAVIS: (cackles) 
MATT: It's a unique experience for Lieve'tel because there is no present divine to intervene. Whereas normally such a grand ask and focal calling of will and intent is an outward request, this seems to emanate from within. The chamber's obsidian polished walls begin to dim as the surrounding candlelight becomes a dull, low, warm blur. Through Lieve'tel, you instinctually draw their hands together and place them into each other's within your hands. As you withdraw your grasp on theirs, a sourceless golden thread now binds its way through their hands and fingers, both of them held together, wrapped. A little bit of a cold shiver runs through your sternum and down your back, of a flicker of warmth travels through yours. With that, the string burns bright and then scatters into ash. But something's a little different. Something irrevocably connected between the two of you. 
LAURA: Did we just get married? 
MARISHA: Did we just get married? (laughter) 
MARISHA: It felt like marriage. 
SAM: You're both pregnant. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Double behbehs. 
LIAM: Matron just got born. (laughter) 
MARISHA: I just-- (screams) 
TRAVIS: Perfect timing. 
MARISHA: She came out with a mask. (laughter) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MARISHA: What does that mean? What did you just do? 
TRAVIS: ♪ What is this feeling ♪ ♪ So sudden and new? ♪ 
LAURA: Does she feel warmer? Do you feel-- 
MATT: Slightly. You're still Laudna. Your very nature hasn't changed, that you can tell. 
LAURA: I'm going to give a little tug to her arm and see if it falls off quite as easily. 
MATT: I mean, it does still shift and the bone pulls out of place. 
MARISHA: So you dislocated my shoulder. 
LAURA: Okay, well, I'm just going to-- (laughter) 
MATT: But there is-- 
LIAM: I give her a little touch on the face of my cheek and I press firmly with a thumb and take it away. Just a little pink blush there just for a second before it dies away. 
MARISHA: I didn't just age like 30 years, right? 
LAURA: No, no, no. 
MARISHA: That would be awful. 
LAURA: No, you look the same. You look the same. 
LIAM: That comes next. 
LAURA: That comes next. 
MARISHA and LAURA: (laugh) 
LAURA: I give you a kiss. 
MARISHA: I just hold her. I don't know what just happened, but do I still smell like dead leaves? 
LAURA: You smell amazing. 
LIAM: It is death that makes life so very precious. So treat it like the gem that it is. 
LAURA: Thank you. 
MARISHA: Thank you. 
LIAM: Thank you. And thank you. 
MARISHA: I would like to return someday and maybe take you up on your offer, but for now, we have an old lady we should probably check up on and-- 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
MARISHA: I know. 
LAURA: My-my-- I have to talk to my mom. Do you think she's going to return to my dad? 
MARISHA: We should make that house call as well. But I'll be with you every step of the way. And if it still sounds nice to you-- 
LAURA: Yes. 
MARISHA: -- that little cabin in the woods. 
LAURA: Yes. 
LAURA: Yes. 
MARISHA: All right. I love you so much. 
LAURA: I love you. 
MARISHA and LAURA: (laugh) 
LAURA: You know what? I don't know if I've ever told you, bit I heard music the first time I met you. Your mind was so beautiful and I can't believe we're both here now and everything happened the way it did and I'm just so grateful that I got to hear that. 
MARISHA: It's probably a little bit of the insanity, honestly. 
LAURA: It was pretty. 
MARISHA: (laughs) Well, you can have all of my crazy. 
LAURA: I'll take it. Thank you. 
LIAM: Of course. Return anytime. The Duskmeadow will take you under its wing. 
MARISHA: Thank you. I'll follow your lead. 
LAURA: Yeah. Is Liliana still in the city? 
MATT: Liliana is in the city. She's been tended to by some of the local combat medics that were immediately available to get her back into a semblance of health. Also keeping her outside of public sight as many people were given implicitly instructions to attack her as part of Ludinus' inner circle. So when you brought her with you under this guise of bearing Predathos upon arrival, of bearing Predathos upon arrival, you had her set aside. So she's currently resting within what was essentially a small side war tent that is under instructed protection of Vasselheim's Dawn Marshals. So if you step into the tent itself, you can see the physicians are taking a minute to rest and finish off snacks and give you acknowledgement. Liliana is sitting up partially out of the bed and is rubbing her face a bit and looks up as you walk in. "Imogen." 
LAURA: Hi. 
MATT: "I was going to--" 
LAURA: No, no, stay down. 
MATT: "Oh, got dizzy there for a second." 
LAURA: I'll come sit on the bed and-- 
MATT: "Laudna." 
LAURA: -- give her a hug. 
MARISHA: Mother-in-law. (laughter) 
LAURA: I don't know what-- 
MARISHA: I don't know. It was weird. There was a band around our wrists and I maybe took some of her life. I don't know. 
MATT: "Sure. Why not? It's been a weird time. (chuckles)" 
LAURA: Um. What-what-what-- (sighs) What do you have-- Are you going to return to Gelvaan? 
MATT: "I've been trying to think on that here. I don't know. I don't quite know where I belong right now. I've done a lot of bad things in the name of trying to do something right. I mean, even just the few glances I get around here, there's a lot of people that don't want to see me do well through all this." 
LAURA: Well. One thing to say about our town is it's isolated. (chuckles) 
MATT: "I wouldn't even-- Wouldn't even say what to Relvin. I just left." 
LAURA: I know, but-- I know it would be hard, but he-- He misses you. He never-- I think you should talk to him, at least. 
MATT: "I'll talk to him. He deserves that at the very least. I just don't know. I don't know if the woman he loved is here anymore." 
LAURA: Everything's changed. 
MATT: "Everything has, and that's okay. I think that's okay." 
LAURA: But you do owe him that much. 
MATT: "Yes, I do. He's not a bad man. He's a very good man. He deserves better than what he's gotten. I got to figure out a lot of things." 
MARISHA: At the very least, I don't want to speak for you, my love, but perhaps you can make it right just enough to where Imogen has a bridge to her father. He saw a lot of you in her. 
MATT: "I can't imagine why." 
LAURA: (chuckles) 
MATT: "(sighs) For the two of you more than myself, I will do what I can." 
LAURA: Thank you. 
MATT: "I owe a lot to you. I owe a lot to him. I owe a lot to--" She looks out beyond the tent. "-- everyone. If I'm not in shackles somewhere when all this is said and done, then I have a particular path of apologies to walk, I think." 
LAURA: I'll speak on your behalf, if they'll listen. 
MARISHA: Honestly, I think you're quite lucky. It seems everyone is in the mood for a little redemption in this new era that we're stepping into. 
LAURA: Do you know-- We got the impression after he was killed that Ludinus had made more of himself. Do you know anything of that? 
MATT: "I don't know, but he's a smart one, a man prone to already knowing what the next step is and having four plans after that. So it wouldn't surprise me." 
LAURA: We should speak to Caleb. 
MARISHA: He would know. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "Well, I'm going to lie down." 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "Take another nap and think about what I've done." 
LAURA: Be well, Mama. 
MATT: She takes your hand. "I'm proud of you. I think, if anything, the best thing I ever did was maybe be, in my attempts to try and protect you, instead be the force that made you this, this incredible woman in front of me." 
LAURA: A lot of things went into that. 
MATT: "I just wish maybe I had done it through different means, but-- I'm going to lie down," and she lays back in bed and grabs the tea off to the side. She's still recovering from the near death that she was from. 
LAURA: We should tell Caleb about Ludinus. 
MARISHA: Maybe we should go meet up with the others and find him. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Bye, Mom. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: She has a pillow over her face. She goes, "Bye, Laudna. I'll have many questions later about what you said." 
MARISHA: All right. 
MATT: As you guys head out into the night, Braius, whereabouts are you? 
LIAM: Tiny footnote on Lieve'tel in the coming week. She will find Cerkonos and rock his world. She's probably too much for him, but she'll let him decide that. Anyway. As you were. 
ROBBIE: So you think. (laughter) 
MATT: We might come back to that. (laughter) 
LAURA: That's how we end this entire campaign. 
MATT: Yeah. Braius, what are you up to at the moment? 
SAM: Before everyone goes their separate ways, I would like to call everyone together and just say that I'm, as I was trying to say inside the big room before, I'm aware that I've committed many sins, some against good people, some against bad people, some against you people. And-- 
MATT: As you have that thought-- (clamoring) 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah! 
SAM: Nosebleed! 
MATT: Your mind flashes back to that moment of the shattering of the Divine Gate and the crafting of the Rite of Catatheosis, that moment where the gods convened and before they stepped across that path, your vision was pulled from your space and you found yourself sitting in a fiery abyss. And there, in those moments, before the gods crossed the threshold, from the darkness, two burning horns and singing red eyes peer back at you. "Doomseed." 
SAM: Asmodeus. (laughter) 
MATT: "Are you proud of what you've done?" 
SAM: Proud? Boy, which part? Yes. I am proud of what I've done. I think. These-- I was lost and you gave me a path forward. You taught me to lie and I used it for evil and I used it for some good, too. So, yes, I am proud. 
MATT: "So, you've stepped into the heart of Vasselheim and you've made yourself a hero to all the great temples and priests." 
SAM: I have. 
MATT: "Well, then, continue. I'll be back and we'll have great things to do together, Doomseed." 
SAM: But I-- I turned my back on you. 
MATT: "Have you?" 
SAM: (quick inhale) (laughter) (laughter) 
MATT: "Have you? Was that trickery of the mouth or trickery of the soul, Braius?" 
SAM: Oh god. (laughter) 
LAURA: Make a choice, make a choice. 
ROBBIE: Literally grass-fed, grass-finished temptation. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: "Grass-fed." 
LIAM: Literally, oh god. 
MATT: "My question to you is will you find me, (deeply) or will I find you?" 
LAURA: (nervous noise) 
TALIESIN: Fuck yes. 
SAM: That's so tempting. (quick exhale) (laughter) 
SAM: It's like I was out, but they keep pulling me back in. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: ♪ Asmodeus ♪ (laughter) 
SAM: You're a hard man to say no to. 
MATT: "I know." 
SAM: But if I-- But if I-- I've made my choice. I've made my choice. My path has been messy and unclear and you gave me focus and a horizon to aim for. But I think I prefer the mess. I think I prefer the haziness of... of life, of not knowing what's next and not knowing, not having a singular purpose. These people that I was with, they're all damaged, weird people, but they're sort of beautiful in that way. I think I prefer the mess. You can find me, and you can try to punish me for turning my back on you, but you'll have to go through them, too. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: We never said that. (laughter) 
SAM: You'll have to go through them, too. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: (stuttered denial) 
MATT: "You act like it's something you can just discard to the side. I'm inside your soul, my hooks are there. I'm going nowhere, and I'll be back. And in that time, I'll haunt your dreams. I'll be at the edge of every vision. My agents will always be waiting, and I will find you!" (forceful whirl) Pulled back into the fire and darkness. You return back to the night of Vasselheim as you call your friends together. 
ASHLEY: What were you going to say? 
ROBBIE: Yeah. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: We feel bad about-- 
TRAVIS: Yeah, Braius. You kind of-- 
TALIESIN: You phased out there. 
ROBBIE: I think it's okay. 
LIAM: It felt like you were about to make a toast or something. 
LAURA: Why is your nose bleeding? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, you look like you-- 
ROBBIE: Are you all right? 
ASHLEY: -- got a little queasy for a second. 
TRAVIS: He was also blushing. 
SAM: There's color? Oh, well, that's interesting. 
MARISHA: It's a new thing for both of us. 
SAM: Oh, yes. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: It's been so fun getting to know you. Where are you going to go from here? (laughter) 
SAM: I mean, I thought we were sort of a group, a team, sort of a-- 
LAURA and MARISHA: (murmured affirmations) 
ROBBIE: We are, we're a team. 
SAM: You know, we have each other's backs through thick and thin. 
TRAVIS: (death groan) (laughter) 
SAM: I feel like this is the end of a momentous story. We should all pledge to each other that we will be there for one another. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Yeah, good. Good, good, good. A little side letter. (laughter) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Slide it in. 
SAM: I pledge myself to you. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LAURA: That's really-- 
SAM: I would hope that you would do the same for me. 
LAURA: I mean, Braius, yeah, but I mean, we've known each other for like a month, so-- 
ASHLEY: You don't need to do that. 
SAM: Six days. 
MARISHA: Six days. 
LAURA: Oh wow. (laughter) 
LAURA: You've been around for six days. You know? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, you don't need to pledge yourself. We don't need a pledge. 
SAM: No, I really want to. 
LAURA: You don't need-- 
SAM: I really want to. (laughter) 
SAM: It would make me feel better if you did. (laughter) 
LAURA: What's going on? 
SAM: (sighs) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: I might have fucked up. (laughter) 
SAM: I fucked up. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yes, and? 
SAM: I fucked up. 
ROBBIE: Just get it out, get it out. 
SAM: I might have pledged myself to Asmodéus. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Asmódeus. 
SAM: He's going to kill me. He's going to come back and kill me. He's a baby, he's going to grow up and kill me. There's a baby that's going to kill me! (laughter) Somewhere there's a baby and he's going to kill me! 
ROBBIE: You're scared of a baby? 
SAM: I am! 
MARISHA: There are some creepy babies. 
ROBBIE: There are creepy babies. 
LIAM: That baby's got to make it through a lot of stuff. 
LAURA: That baby's got some champions. I mean, we saw them. 
TALIESIN: I'm sure there's a long list, and you are not that high up there. 
SAM: Can we just kill all the babies, just in case? 
LAURA: No. 
ROBBIE: No, no, no, no. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Hold on, hold on. 
TRAVIS: No, Braius. No. 
ASHLEY: Let's just-- 
ROBBIE: I don't think that's a good idea. 
SAM: I'm stressed out! 
TRAVIS: No, Braius. 
SAM: Every baby I see, I'm going to be like: (screams). 
ROBBIE: It's a knee jerk reaction. You'll be fine. 
LAURA and ASHLEY: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. (laughter) 
LIAM: You've got at least 12 years where you're fine. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Minimum. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Oh my god. 
MARISHA: If he hits puberty later or she hits puberty later, it's fine. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, you send up the flare, and all Bells Hells-- 
SAM: I could try to fuck a woman and then it turns out to be Asmodeus! 
LAURA: I mean-- 
MARISHA: Honestly, that would be-- That's a good story. 
TRAVIS: There's some benefit, reward at least in that scenario. 
ROBBIE: Worse ways to go. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LAURA: She'd be a lot younger than you, though. 
LIAM: Yeah, if you just date your age, that's not going to happen. 
SAM: Okay, okay. That's fair. Good point. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, that's true. That's a really good point. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: That's gross, that's gross, that's gross. 
LAURA: It's a little gross, it's a little gross. (laughter) 
LIAM: That was Campaign One, man. (laughter) 
SAM: I was going to apologize, but now I feel like I'm-- Anyway, I'm sorry. 
LAURA: So wait. 
ROBBIE: You still can. You still can. 
LAURA: So he's coming after you? 
SAM: He's going to hunt me down for the rest of my life. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god, what are you going to do? (laughter) 
LAURA: Maybe you could-- Oh! Fearne! 
ASHLEY: What? 
LAURA: Maybe you can let him hang out with Nana. Maybe he can hide out in the Fey. 
ASHLEY: Oh, I mean-- 
MARISHA: Yeah, that's dating your age. 
ASHLEY: That is, yeah. I know she took a liking to you. I mean, you are more than welcome. I was going to go back home anyway. 
SAM: All right. 
LAURA: You're going to go back home? 
ASHLEY: Well, I don't know. Just for a little bit. Just, I was going to see what-- 
LAURA: Oh, okay. 
LIAM: Just take it slow, maybe go out on a first date. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
SAM: I could hide out there for a while? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I mean, we got to ask Nana about it, but I'm sure she would love to keep you there. 
SAM: All right. Somehow I feel safer there. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, she probably would keep you safe. 
LAURA: I mean, that's if you want to hide, instead of try to fight or-- 
LIAM: When you say, "Keep him safe," do you mean like blanket safe-- 
LAURA: -- be brave. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, you know. 
LIAM: -- or safe-safe? 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Like safe-safe. 
LIAM: Oh, okay. So all three dimensions, then. 
SAM: If hypothetically he came back and challenged me to some sort of a duel-- 
MARISHA: Look, his priorities-- 
TALIESIN: It wouldn't be fair for us to help if it was a duel. 
MARISHA: -- will probably change in two to three decades. He's saying that now, but who knows-- 
LAURA: Here's the thing, he's probably just reaching out and grasping at a bunch of straws because I bet he lost quite a bit of followers when he-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I agree. 
ROBBIE: It's an interesting question, too, because all of the gods saw what we did, right? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
ROBBIE: Is Asmodeus going to be the only one? 
LAURA: Coming after us? 
TALIESIN: Also, are you-- 
ROBBIE: Will there be other gods to come after the rest of us as well? 
TALIESIN: You are freaking out at the promise of a god of lies. That is another layer of this. So, you know, you can take it with a grain of salt. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, maybe he was just giving you shit and is just lying and he's never going to come after you. 
TALIESIN: That's what I would do. 
TRAVIS: I think you're in big trouble. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LIAM: Yeah, devil's advocate. Train really, really, really, really, really, really hard every day of your life. 
ROBBIE: Mostly it sounds like a tomorrow problem. 
SAM: I'm devil's advocate. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: That's what I was saying. Devil's advocate, maybe you should train. 
LIAM: Comma. 
LAURA: Wait, so if you're not with the Lord of Lies anymore, are you going to search out the Platinum Dragon again, or--? 
SAM: No, he's really boring. 
LAURA: Yeah. You're wearing the armor, though. 
SAM: I know. 
TRAVIS: What's it called? 
ROBBIE: I always forget. 
SAM: Truthbearer, Fabled Plate of Uther Vendrock. I mean, it's really cool. 
TRAVIS: I keep hearing Luther Vandross. (laughter) 
SAM: I haven't had any guidance in my life. I mean, I've only had guidance from gods in my life and now all the gods are gone. But I was thinking, if I needed guidance-- 
MARISHA: Fearne's got you. 
SAM: Well, no. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I got you if you need Guidance. 
SAM: I have this pamphlet that that one called Jester gave me, and-- 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: I could always reach out to her god and see if he would guide me through things. 
TALIESIN: As a casual observer of your reality over the last week-ish, you made all of your best decisions by yourself. Really, the moments where you actually seemed, from my perspective at this point, were when you weren't thinking about anybody else's opinion. When you were just trying to do what you thought was good. 
SAM: Yeah. Fair, fair. 
TALIESIN: Maybe take a little bit of time before you make any rash decisions. 
LAURA: Or maybe you should follow that guy. 
TALIESIN: Or go with the pamphlet. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I mean Jester really had her shit together. 
TALIESIN: Who the fuck do I know? 
ASHLEY: So I think whoever she-- 
TRAVIS: I think listen to the advice from the holey one. 
TALIESIN: Which one? 
ASHLEY: Which one? 
SAM: The one with the hole in his head? 
TALIESIN: Oh, that's good. I'm going to keep that. 
ASHLEY: That's clever. 
TALIESIN: Thank you. 
SAM: Yeah. 
MARISHA: As much as we're joshing you, you do have us. 
SAM: Really? 
MARISHA: We've just been through the most insane amount of shit together. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MARISHA: That is a bonding experience like no other. No one has seen what we all have seen. 
LIAM: Six days of crazy, and we can build on those six days. 
TRAVIS: Eh. Am I the only one that hasn't gotten a painting yet? 
SAM: Oh, that reminds me. 
TALIESIN: Wow. 
SAM: I finished these on the walk over here. (laughter) (laughter) 
SAM: This one is for you, Chetney. 
LAURA: Oh wow! 
ASHLEY: Oh wow! 
MATT: Whoa! 
LAURA: Holy schmoly! 
MARISHA: Let me see, let me see. 
TRAVIS: (gawking) Oh! 
MATT: That's awesome! 
ASHLEY: Wow! 
ROBBIE: Wow! 
MARISHA: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: That's great. 
SAM: And Dorian, I-- 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
MATT: What?! 
LAURA: Wow! (amazed reactions) 
SAM: It's how I see you in all of your beautiful glory. 
ASHLEY: This art is so beautiful. 
ROBBIE: You've captured my jaw line beautifully. 
SAM: These, I made these, I showed them to you, but I didn't give them out to you before. But this one was for Ashton. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god. 
LIAM: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: Wow! 
LAURA: Holy schmoly! 
SAM: This is for Orym. 
TRAVIS: You got a little swirl. 
ASHLEY: Wow! 
LAURA: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: You really are so talented. 
LAURA: You're really talented. 
SAM: Yeah? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Have you ever thought-- 
ASHLEY: Maybe you should open up a show. 
LAURA: Yeah! 
SAM: A show? 
LAURA: Yeah, an art show! 
ASHLEY: Yeah, what if you did something where it was almost like a performance piece where you live paint for people. 
SAM: Okay, okay. Wait, can I still keep my dark persona, like the Dark Painter, the Evil Painter? 
ASHLEY: Love it. 
LIAM: You mean like Chriss Angel? 
SAM: Like Chriss Angel with painting. Street painter! 
TALIESIN: Lord Chriss Angel? Are we actually speaking of Lord Chriss Angel? 
ASHLEY: Yes, I love it. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Canon. 
ASHLEY: I love it. 
SAM: Okay. I could try that for a while. 
MATT: He's banned from most of Marquet. 
TALIESIN: That's fair. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Listen. 
ROBBIE: For good reason. 
ASHLEY: You have our back, we have your back. But if you don't have our back, we will not have your back. 
TRAVIS: Oh, good. 
ASHLEY: Okay? 
SAM: I have your back, 100%. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
SAM: I'm not lying. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Insight check. (laughter) 
MATT: Roll persuasion or deception, you don't have say which. 
LIAM: Guidance yourself. 
ASHLEY: Oh, it was almost a 19! 
LIAM: No, I'm standing right next to you. 
ASHLEY: Oh, okay, okay, okay. 
LIAM: Reroll. 
MATT: You guys roll so many ones. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay. 
LAURA: I know! 
LIAM: Yes! 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LIAM: Not anymore. 
SAM: What'd you get? 
ASHLEY: 30. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: 30. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
ASHLEY and LIAM: Oh! 
MATT: Rollies! 
TALIESIN: Rollies! (excited clamoring) 
ROBBIE: Rollies! 
ASHLEY: Or we can just leave it. 
TRAVIS: Rollies off of 30. 
SAM: We can just leave it. 
ASHLEY: I feel really uncomfortable because I can't tell. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I was going to say, if you just leave it, you win. 
ASHLEY: I usually can read people very well and I can't-- 
SAM: I feel really uncomfortable-- 
ASHLEY: -- tell right now. 
SAM: -- because I feel like you can tell. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: I can tell-- 
SAM: I feel like you know. 
ASHLEY: -- that you are-- I know what you're saying to me. 
SAM: I know that you know that. (chuckling) 
LIAM: Beginner's improv class. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughs) 
LIAM: I think that we're telling a story. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to trust. I'm going to trust. 
ROBBIE: I feel like this is out loud. 
ASHLEY: Unless we should roll Rollies in the game one last time. 
SAM: Go for it. 
LAURA: Rollies. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Rollies. 
LIAM: Best game within a game. 
SAM: 15. 
ASHLEY: 18. (cheering) 
SAM: I have your backs. 
LAURA: Oh. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: I knew it. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I knew it, I knew it. I felt it, I did. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, if you decide also that you don't feel like settling down, then let me know. I don't know, I got some ideas. 
ASHLEY: Ash. 
TALIESIN: Yeah? 
ASHLEY: What do you want to do? 
TALIESIN: (long exhale) Well, I think I want to take a moment to figure out what this means now because this is-- I have now had three and a half heads in my life and it's starting to worry me. I don't want to-- 
MARISHA: Wait, where's the half coming from? 
TALIESIN: (knocks rock skull) 
MARISHA: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh. Yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: Hmm, yeah. 
TALIESIN: So I think it might be a good idea to find Essek, ask some questions, maybe take a moment to figure out what this means before somebody else decides that they want to figure out what this means. We have seen so much cool shit. I don't think I'm done. I think I want to walk. I spent so much time in the same place. I got so stuck. We only spent a few days on the moon. There's a whole 'nother moon. 
MARISHA: I don't know if that one has an atmosphere, I'm throwing it out there. 
TALIESIN: We don't. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: What the fuck do we know about it? And you can go underwater. I mean, we can go anywhere with a little bit of thought. I don't believe that there's anywhere that you can't go anymore if you're-- I want to see how far I can get. I want to see things nobody has seen before. We've already seen things that barely anybody has seen before. I don't know. 
TRAVIS: That's very positive. 
TALIESIN: I want to see this fucking place. [airplane droning] 
LIAM: Before we do that-- 
LAURA: Look at this, he's smiling so much. You're smiling so much. 
TALIESIN: I am smiling. It might just be a concussion. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: A really bad one, clearly. 
LIAM: You mentioned Essek. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LIAM: Do you guys want to, if he would do us the favor. We've spent the last few months almost dying every other day. It's been a hard road. You want to spend a week in Jrusar and just be, before we take off in any different directions we might? 
ASHLEY: That'd be fun. 
TALIESIN: Very much, yes. 
ASHLEY: Maybe we could stay at Eshteross' house. That is actually hard to say. 
TRAVIS: The crime scene? 
ASHLEY: I said it a little bit wrong. 
TRAVIS: That's a good idea. (laughter) 
MARISHA: It's covered in booby traps. 
TRAVIS: That place was covered in blood. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
TRAVIS: It was fucking gross in there. 
LIAM: They've probably all been sprung by now. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I imagine. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, but we can fix it up. 
MARISHA: I would love a week in Jrusar. 
ASHLEY: Me too. 
TALIESIN: That's a great idea. 
MARISHA: Been a lot of place-- (grunts) (laughter) 
TALIESIN: I mean, another week would be amazing, but this is never going to be goodbye, we all know that. 
MARISHA: We should go back to that restaurant where we met Bertrand. 
TALIESIN: Wow, that was a while ago. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Have a drink. 
TALIESIN: You're glowing, by the way. You look really-- 
MARISHA: Am I? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: You're a little pink. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, it's-- 
ASHLEY: Just-- What's going on? 
MARISHA: I can't say for certain, but I went with Imogen to go see Lieve'tel and she did a weird thing with a gold thread and tied our wrists together, and then I felt a little bit warmer and she was like, "You're going to get old now," and maybe Imogen and I are married. I don't know! It all happened very quickly! 
LAURA: I think, regardless, regardless, you're wearing my ring, and our fates are tied together. 
MARISHA: It's true. 
LAURA: Not that they weren't already, but it's a bit more official. 
TRAVIS: (claws slashing) 
MARISHA: (yells) 
TRAVIS: What color is it? 
MARISHA: I always bled red. (laughter) 
MARISHA: It was always red. 
SAM: What the hell, Chetney? 
ASHLEY: Chet! (laughter) 
LAURA: What is it? What, what? 
MARISHA: What is it, is it different? 
LIAM: Spicy piquante now. 
TRAVIS: You're married! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Mazel tov! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Dorian? 
ROBBIE: Hmm? 
ASHLEY: What are you thinking? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: You've always known I'll go wherever you go. But if you could spare me just a bit before you leave, there's something I'd like to, if it's all right. 
LAURA: Of course. 
ROBBIE: Is it all right? 
MATT: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: What would you like to do? 
ROBBIE: I'd like to split off and hop on Coriolis and I'd like to fly up where I can get a vantage point over the city and I want to look for, if it's there, any billows or flags or any idea that home would be on the outskirts, if the Silken Squall is in the cityscape anywhere. 
MATT: Yeah, it was nearby. Your father was part of the original meeting. As you fly up at this point, too, I mean, throughout the evening's chaos, the faintest bit of sunlight is starting to crest on the horizon. Dawn is around the corner, but you glance down and it takes you not terribly long as the light begins to hit and the color begins to rise, the familiar white banners of the Silken Squall, a smaller troop of the caravan itself, the mobile city just here to bring your father as a representative. But you see where it sits beyond the outer walls. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, and I imagine my father's probably still busy, maybe within the city. There's someone that's been on my mind since the minute we set off and I reconnected with Bells Hells and that's my mother, and that's who I'm hoping to see there. So I'll fly down and set foot back for the first time in, I mean, gosh, it'd be almost close to a year since I broke and walk through the collection of tents that lead up to the main's cloth-like yurts where my parents would stay. I'll open them and see if she's there. 
MATT: A handful of the various posted guards at this early hour see you approach and begin to step forward to halt your advance before they recognize you and quietly step back with a welcoming smile and a nod. You step towards the flap of the yurt and inside the warm glow of oil lamps, two of which set at different tables on the sides reside within, the comfortable travel bed that's in the center, and your mother is, she's prone to wake up rather early, is currently, looks like, setting a kettle on a small, arcane flame stone. And she doesn't hear you enter. She's just in the process of setting the enchantment on and pouring water into it. 
ROBBIE: I'll quietly walk up behind her and I'll get 10 feet away and I'll gently cast Gust behind her ear, into her hair, so I'd let her know that I'm there. 
MATT: (wind whistling) Her shoulder length teal hair with touches of white drift with it and she stops and her hand goes onto her shoulder. She looks over towards you. "Dorian? Dorian, my baby!" And she sets it down on the-- The kettle hits the top of the table and then tips off, spilling onto the ground. She doesn't even notice as she runs over and just wraps her arms around you. "Dorian." 
ROBBIE: You don't have to call me that. Oh, Mom. Do you hate me? 
MATT: "No." 
ROBBIE: Then he just-- Yeah, he loses it in his mother's arms. 
MATT: "Is this not what you wish to be called? Your father said that--" 
ROBBIE: It's all right. Yes. I'm sorry for what happened. I don't think the world was what I thought it was. It's a scary place and it's dark. I never imagined that any of this would happen. 
MATT: She just holds you. And kind of pulls you into her lap, there on the floor of the yurt. "My sweet boy, I'm so sorry. We tried to protect you. You're right, the world is a very scary, scary place." 
ROBBIE: Do you think-- Do you think it's possible to start over? To start new, even though you've made terrible mistakes that led to-- He can't finish his sentence and only his brother is on his mind. He's not trying to hurt her, but he can't control the truth of what his journey has led him to. 
MATT: She picks you up by the cheeks and rubbing the tears from your face as her eyes meet yours, she goes, "My sweet Brontë. All it takes to start again is to wake up one morning and decide to." 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
MATT: "We are the wind and the wind is prone to change. Is it not?" 
ROBBIE: It is. 
MATT: "It's our very essence. The world is frightening. But you've seen it now. And it's filled with so much beauty. You're part of that now. You're part of what makes it beautiful." 
ROBBIE: Thank you. Thank you for telling me it's okay to live. As he lays in his mother's lap and he-- He feels that-- That warm-- Her warm breath, he just breathes it in. And holds it there. Because he can forever. Just for a moment, drifts off to sleep in his mother's lap. 
MATT: "Shh. Shh." 
ROBBIE: That's all I ever wanted. 
MATT: Okay. The rest of you gather yourselves. You're trekking, you said, for a week to Jrusar. To try and maybe retrace some of the steps of where this began and offer yourselves a little bit of space and time to celebrate and enjoy a little space from the intensity of Vasselheim. 
LAURA: Would you have brought FRIDA with you? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: Would you like FRIDA to join you at the table? 
TRAVIS: Sure. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: All right, make a little room here on the edge. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: If you don't mind. 
SAM: Oh god. Oh god. 
ROBBIE: I'll get my shit together after my nap and go with everyone. (laughter) 
LIAM: Timey-wimey. 
MATT: FRIDA, if you don't mind coming to the table, please. 
LIAM: Now, welcome to the stage-- 
CHRISTIAN: Someone call for an Aeormaton? (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Get in, get in. 
MARISHA: Squeeze in. 
CHRISTIAN: Mr. Pock O'Pea. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Protégé. (laughter) 
CHRISTIAN: You are different. 
MARISHA: Oh! (laughs) Sorry. (giggles) 
CHRISTIAN: It suits you. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Thank you. 
CHRISTIAN: You're welcome. 
TALIESIN: Been doing this for a while. 
MATT: But you all gather and traverse the familiar spires of Jrusar. The beautiful rising brown and red columns of civilization and art and beauty, here, where the Chandei Quorum brings order to a people. Some very happy to see you return. You check in with Zhudanna. 
LAURA: Yay! 
ROBBIE: Yeah! 
MATT: Zhudanna, who has since-- 
SAM: Died. 
MATT: -- rented the room. (laughter) 
MATT: No. (laughter) 
MATT: Who has since rented the room while you were away. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
MATT: And a young, studying pupil. A familiar beret. 
MARISHA: Is it Prism? 
MATT: And Prism has taken up residence-- 
MARISHA: (gasps) Prism! 
MATT: -- to pursue knowledge and arcana and history from within the Conservatory. 
LAURA: Amazing. 
MARISHA: Miss you, Emily. 
MATT: I know. Miss you, Emily. But, indeed, Zhudanna is so happy to see you both. "Seems like you've traveled quite the world!" 
MARISHA: Yes, look, this is an alien thumb. And this is an alien fetus! 
LAURA: Oh, well, maybe Zhudanna doesn't want to see the fetus. 
MATT: "These will go on the shelf." 
MARISHA: Oh, I-- you know, I can part with it. It's fine, yes. 
MATT: "Thank you so much." 
MATT: "Would you all like cookies?" 
LAURA: Yes. 
MATT: Puts together a platter of some sort of cabbage dish-- 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. 
MATT: -- that's not quite-- 
LAURA: Oh. 
LIAM: Oh. 
LAURA: These are delicious cookies, Zhudanna. 
MATT: Mm. 
LAURA: Thank you. 
TRAVIS: Cabbage? 
MATT: She's a little confused. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Maybe, we'll do-- 
LIAM: Nice doggy. (laughter) 
MARISHA: We'll do one of our usual market runs. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: Get her some fresh-- 
LAURA: Then give Prism the rundown on taking care of her-- 
MARISHA: Yes. 
LAURA: Making sure that-- 
LIAM: Show FRIDA every spot we visited with Fresh Cut Grass and tell a hundred stories of our time in Jrusar, way back, three months ago. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: The terrible place that we lived when FCG and Ashton were roommates. Just living in, literally, a hole in the wall with a bunch of other miscreants. 
CHRISTIAN: I think, Ashton, I think this might be your size, if you're interested. It has-- I open up my jacket and it has FCG's initials in it. I think I might be due for a new one, so. 
LAURA: Ooh! 
CHRISTIAN: I think you might want that. 
TALIESIN: I never say no to nice clothing. 
CHRISTIAN: Looks great. 
TALIESIN: It feels really good. 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
MARISHA: You clean up nice. 
ROBBIE: It looks like it was tailored. 
LAURA: Yeah, so sophisticated, Ashton. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: There will be a time and place for this. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Thank you. 
CHRISTIAN: You're welcome. 
ASHLEY: Hey, FRIDA? 
CHRISTIAN: Yes, Ms. Calloway? 
ASHLEY: Do you feel like there's any way that you could, not bring FCG back, but look into, maybe-- I don't know, I guess bringing him back again? 
CHRISTIAN: I feel their presence still. So if they want to come back and you all think it's a good idea-- 
TALIESIN: Maybe there's an answer in Aeor. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
CHRISTIAN: I would like to go to Aeor. 
ASHLEY: Maybe we could find that-- De-De- Devexian? 
MARISHA: Devexian? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: At the very least, we could learn more about them. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
CHRISTIAN: I'd like to meet others like me, if there are. 
MARISHA: You should meet Imahara Joe. 
LAURA: You should go to Aeor. 
CHRISTIAN: Imahara Joe. 
MARISHA: Imahara Joe, yes, we-- Quite familiar with them when we were in Bassuras. 
LAURA: It's not that far. 
MARISHA: Uh-uh. 
ASHLEY: No. That'd be a nice trip. 
LAURA: Maybe you and Chet can go. 
CHRISTIAN: If my teacher, my master, my-- 
TRAVIS: Eyy! 
CHRISTIAN: -- sire. If my sire would approve. 
TRAVIS: Phew. 
LAURA: Your daddy. 
TALIESIN: Oh no, that's not good. 
CHRISTIAN: My daddy. 
TRAVIS: You see my head getting larger and larger. (laughter) 
SAM: I think it's called the Alpha. 
CHRISTIAN: The Alpha, yes. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
MARISHA: God. 
TRAVIS: Have to get a Dremel out and this looks like a good space for it right here. 
CHRISTIAN: I could do that. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
CHRISTIAN: I could do that. 
MARISHA: Should we go get that drink? 
ROBBIE: Please. 
LAURA: Let's do it. 
MATT: Stepping into the familiar fire lit interiors of the various taverns, you're given a tour of the various meals and drinks and spaces. Along the way, greeted by one exuberant, massive ogre from the kitchen, upon your arrival, runs out. (Pretty) "My friends!" 
LAURA: (laughs) Oh ho, boy. Hey, what are you doing here? 
MATT: "Well, I heard that you wanted a fine meal. And while we have a sordid history--" 
TRAVIS: Oh wow. 
MATT: "-- I just want to show that there's no hard feelings and I still think of all three of you fondly." 
ASHLEY: There's no hard feelings. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: There's none whatsoever. 
MARISHA: Have you found someone, Pretty? 
MATT: "I've found someone very pretty." 
MARISHA: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
MATT: "Oh! Hmm. It's still early stages, but--" (laughter) 
MATT: "We're taking our time." 
SAM: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: His dance card is full. 
MARISHA: Yes. (laughter) 
MATT: "But nevertheless, any requests from our menu?" 
LAURA: Oh. 
MARISHA: The special. 
LAURA: Surprise us. 
SAM: Is it a meal, the thing that you get here? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: The meal. 
MATT: "I'll throw something special together. (laughs) (counting grunts)" 
CHRISTIAN: Just metal for me. 
MATT: "Mm, I remember your kind. (chuckles)" Goes back into the kitchen. Yeah, a week of delights and memories in Jrusar. You checking in with the the Krook House-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I actually-- 
MATT: -- in Fownsee Hollow. 
TALIESIN: I definitely want to stop in and at the very least, say hi to Milo. It's been a long time. 
MATT: Do the rest of you go with or do you take this as a solo trip? 
TALIESIN: I'm fine either way. Actually, if you want to come around and check out and actually, it's possible that FCG left some of their stuff in the Krook House, so I can show you their bunk. 
TRAVIS: Go, be free, use your nose, explore. Take in whatever Jrusar-- 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: -- has to offer you. 
TALIESIN: Maybe not at the Krook House. You're going to smell some things. 
TRAVIS: Well, shit. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: All right. Descending through the Fownsee Hollow and the darkened interior of the spire and where no sunlight really touches the number of glowing baubles and torches that lead you along these massive stretches of scaffolding and hanging cloths and canvas. You eventually come to the exterior of the Krook House. This unique looking, oddly painted little abode that's buried partially into the wall of the interior core. You knock on the door briefly before a voice goes, "Yeah, what do you want?" 
TALIESIN: What don't I want, you miserable, miserable fuck? 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "Ashton's back." and the door opens and you see-- 
TALIESIN: They love me. 
MATT: -- Anni Aughta, female uniya, is an orc-elf ancestry, in what looks like midday ragged pajamas, open the door and says, "Oh, it's good to see-- What the fuck happened to you?" 
TALIESIN: (laughs) So much bad shit. 
MATT: "Good! You had it coming, come in." 
TALIESIN: I missed you. Fuck! 
MATT: "Did you upgrade?" 
CHRISTIAN: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. 
CHRISTIAN: "No, that's-- Smiley day to you, I am FRIDA." 
MARISHA, LAURA, and ROBBIE: Oh! 
MATT: "FRIDA. I guess, welcome to the Krook House." 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you. 
MATT: "We're not feeding both of you are we?" 
TALIESIN: Oh, we are, but, yeah-- FCG didn't make it. 
CHRISTIAN: He saved the world. 
TALIESIN: But he did save the world and also hooked up pretty well. So this is our new friend. 
MATT: You see Anni, who usually keeps this very devil may care attitude kind of, for the first time in a while, taken aback and shaken and goes, "Oh, I didn't-- I didn't realize, I'm sorry. Well-- Welcome." 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you. 
MATT: "Welcome. Come on in. Milo!" 
TALIESIN: You'll like it. 
MATT: Eventually, Milo comes darting around the corner, big glasses, their knitted cap dangling at the sides, one hand in a big leather glove, some sort of a spanner tool on the side. And goes like, "What? Oh ho ho ho! You--" 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: "-- look rough!" 
TALIESIN: So fucking rough. 
MATT: "(laughs)" 
TALIESIN: It's bad. 
MATT: "Oh, I love it. Good to see you, asshole." 
TALIESIN: This is a friend. 
MATT: "Friend, nice to meet you." 
CHRISTIAN: Nice to meet you. 
MATT: "Oh, you're just like them." 
CHRISTIAN: Well, they rubbed off on me. 
MATT: "Well, welcome to the Krook House. We got stories to share, don't we?" 
CHRISTIAN: Jesus. (laughter) 
MATT: Well, welcome to the table with Laura Bailey. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Just in case, at some point, I'm going to-- 
CHRISTIAN: I sat there for eight episodes. 
TALIESIN: -- take Milo aside. 
MATT: Yeah, after some-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: -- some snacks, some introductions, a tour of the space. What sort of FCG relics would they find within FCG's old place? 
ROBBIE: Oh! 
TALIESIN: Yeah! 
SAM: (gulps) Some maintenance stuff, some oil cans, and some little tools and stuff to keep the circuitry and the mechanics running smoothly. Maybe a spare tire. (chuckling) 
SAM: And some other arm attachments that they left behind that were probably less useful. There's one that's just a long pencil. (laughter) 
CHRISTIAN: A pencil, I'll take the pencil. So I can sketch. 
MATT: Great, yeah. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah. 
SAM: And-- A sketch. It looks like a Frisbee. And it says, "We are here." 
MARISHA: Oh my god. (laughter) 
LAURA: Stupid. 
MARISHA: Fucking idiot. 
ROBBIE: To the grave. (laughter) 
CHRISTIAN: Is it okay if I take these? 
TALIESIN: Of course. 
CHRISTIAN: Okay. Thank you. 
TALIESIN: They're here for you. 
CHRISTIAN: They were here for me. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: After some stories and some laughter and some drinks, you said you pull Milo aside. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. As you can see, it's been rough. 
MATT: (Milo) "Yeah. I'm glad you finally got out of the fucking house, man. If half the shit you said is true, that's genuinely kind of wild." 
TALIESIN: Yeah, and I think I'm going to be leaving sooner rather than later. I'll be back, but I think I'm going to be-- 
MATT: "You better be." 
TALIESIN: -- getting out of town. Before I do, not tonight, but before I take off, and I reach up and tap where the glass is meeting the rock, and another little flake pops off. I may need a bit of a patch up, as only you do, and also-- I pull out the hammer, and there's cracks in it. 
MATT: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: It's not dead, but it's a little off. I hand a sketch. I dreamed that, and I think that might fix it. I don't know. It's new. 
MATT: "I mean, just like I did last time, I'll do my best. But my best is as good as you." 
TALIESIN: Your best helped save the world, you got to be kidding. 
MATT: "(laughs)" 
TALIESIN: Your best saved my life. 
MATT: "You're going to give me a big head. Let me-- I'll get to work on this." 
SAM: Also, among the stuff that you find, FRIDA, is a strange looking, crescent shaped sort of microchip. 
CHRISTIAN: Oh. 
SAM: It has an odd, glowing symbol on it. 
CHRISTIAN: I take that up. Can I insert this into myself? (laughter) 
LAURA: He's saying it. 
CHRISTIAN: As I said it-- 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah. It's impossible. 
TRAVIS: Look away, Laura. Look away. 
ROBBIE: It's impossible. 
TRAVIS: Look away. 
TALIESIN: Do you need an adapter? Is this going to-- Yeah. 
CHRISTIAN: Yes, yes. 
TRAVIS: There's an oil can. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
CHRISTIAN: Is there a port? 
MARISHA: Ah, it's a USB-C. 
MATT: You understand as much as you can about your physical build and-- (sparse snickering) 
MATT: Make an arcana check for me, actually. 
CHRISTIAN: Ooh! May I? 
MATT: Just roll a d20. 
TRAVIS: Please. 
CHRISTIAN: 12. 
MATT: 12. You have no real concept of where it could be utilized or how it could be installed. You might have to seek help elsewhere. 
CHRISTIAN: I'll tuck that away. 
MATT: Okay. 
CHRISTIAN: Then I'll turn to his family. 
MATT: All right. 
CHRISTIAN: Their family. 
MATT: You go and find, after this minute, you find Ashton on a length table and Milo with a massive mask and large, heavy welding goggles on, full-on leather apron and glasses and this contraption that's a weird winch-like bendable arm, and is currently pouring some sort of molten metal onto Ashton's head. (hot metal sizzling) Dark smoke rising up from it. "Come on, you motherfucker. Don't move." 
CHRISTIAN: Mr. Greymoore, are you okay? 
TALIESIN: I'm definitely screaming, or-- 
MATT: "Shh-shh! Don't talk." 
TALIESIN: -- doing the, yeah. (grunts) 
MATT: "Don't talk, don't breathe. Lean forward, lean forward." 
TALIESIN: (groans) 
MATT: "More, more." 
TALIESIN: Fuck you. 
MATT: "I'm spilling, I'm spilling, I'm spilling! Ashton, you fucker!" 
TALIESIN: (groans) Fuck you. 
MATT: "All right, come on. Okay. (rapid puffs) And--" Takes a bucket of water. (steam hissing) 
TRAVIS: Sweet. 
MATT: Throws it on. (steam hissing) Steam pours out from around, the room fills with it. Then as it slowly fades away, Ashton, you sit up and you can see near the edges of where that crack in the head is, there's a dull orange glow of a cooling, molten gold material that has filled some of those gaps. 
TALIESIN: That window has gotten a lot bigger. It is definitely-- It has taken over a lot more of their head and face, but it is at least now stable and not spreading and spreading like a windshield. 
CHRISTIAN: Are you okay? Does that hurt? It looks like it hurts. 
TALIESIN: This hurts so much. 
MATT: "They like it." (smacks) 
TALIESIN: (groans) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Fucker. 
CHRISTIAN: Hey, I found something in FCG's room. Does this mean anything to you? 
TALIESIN: Does does it mean anything to me? Does it mean anything to me? 
SAM: No. 
CHRISTIAN: Milo? 
MATT: No. Milo's like, "I haven't seen that, no." 
TALIESIN: It's definitely not anything of ours. 
CHRISTIAN: Okay. Do you guys want to-- (electronic bips and boops) (snickering) 
CHRISTIAN: It's FCG's voice. 
SAM: What? 
CHRISTIAN: (as FCG) Smiley day to ya. 
ASHLEY: Aw! 
SAM: (FCG) Smiley day to ya. 
MARISHA: Aw! 
LAURA: (soft sob) 
CHRISTIAN: I haven't had the courage to do that yet. 
TALIESIN: That's a lot. 
CHRISTIAN: I miss them. 
TALIESIN: I do, too. 
MATT: "I do, too." 
TALIESIN: They inspired me to do some dumb shit. 
MATT: "That's saying much, because he's been doing dumb shit his whole life." 
CHRISTIAN: Well, you found another Aeormaton to help you do dumb shit. 
TALIESIN: That's-- It's a thing to meet someone else that's so desperate to do the right thing that they're willing to die for it. 
CHRISTIAN: They were willing to live for it, too. We should live for it, too. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, in the end, it's what we had in common. It was the thing that made me keep them around, and I'm sure it was the thing that had them keep me around. They were way too good for this world. 
CHRISTIAN: Yes, they were. 
TALIESIN: (sighs) 
MATT: "Coffee?" 
TALIESIN: Ew. Yes, please. 
MATT: (chuckles) 
TALIESIN: A toast. 
CHRISTIAN: I'll go through the motions of it, but you know. Yeah. 
MATT: "Oh! Yeah. We got plenty of chow leftover," giant jar of metal odd bits and scraps from Milo's workshop. 
LAURA and MARISHA: (laugh) 
MATT: "Here," scoops up a little bit of a glass filled with them and hands them to you. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you. 
MATT: "You want to take the toast there, Ashton?" 
TALIESIN: To FCG, who could always see the worst in everybody but chose to only honor the best. Only the best. Cheers. 
MATT: "Cheers." 
CHRISTIAN: (metal bits clinking) (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Like a casino machine paying out. (laughter) 
MATT: There's a Pachinko upgrade we can get later on. 
CHRISTIAN: Can we play slots on-- 
MATT: Probably. 
TRAVIS: Pull your arm. 
LIAM: I'll toss a chunk in. 
MATT: Yeah. 
LIAM: On another moment of this day, not with this group, Orym and Dorian are trying to catch up with the group and I'm going to place us on one of the gondolas moving over one of the city-- 
MATT: Oh yeah. 
ASHLEY: ♪ Go on and kiss ♪ (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Sorry. 
LIAM: Again and again, I've seen you be distracted or your mind wander off somewhere, and see you look out at the city as we move across on the cable car. Copper for your thoughts. 
ROBBIE: I'll actually flip him one. Deal. Just drinking it all in, I suppose. It has been quite a thing. How are you? 
LIAM: Lighter. So many years for me have been heavy. I feel lighter. 
ROBBIE: I've seen it. It makes me happy. You carry a lot on your shoulders. They're small, but broad. 
LIAM: You say that, but I see you carrying. 
ROBBIE: Of course. But it's always easier to do that with someone else. 
LIAM: I don't know what next week holds for us or this group, but if you'll allow it, I would love to-- 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
CHRISTIAN: (laughs softly) 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
LIAM: -- love you and take care of you and spend my days and my nights with you. 
ROBBIE: Okay. Can I ask one thing of you? You know it's not what I'm the best at. 
LIAM: You can ask anything. 
ROBBIE: Can we take it day-by-day? Can we see who we become together? I don't know anything anymore, but the only thing I know is that I want to be with you and I hope just for now, just for now, that can be enough and it can carry us through. After this week with our friends is over-- 
LIAM: I kiss him. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
LIAM: I know day-by-day. We can take it day-by-day. 
ROBBIE: That's a promise. I'll be here in the morning. 
LIAM: I'll be here in the morning. I think I got to go home for a bit. Will you come with me? 
ROBBIE: Yes. 
LIAM: Can we grab Fearne? Can we go to Zephrah for a minute? 
ROBBIE: Of course. 
LIAM: Okay. 
ROBBIE: It feels nice to have a little freedom, real freedom. I'm glad we could find it together. 
LIAM: So much hardship. Such a long road, but I can't say that it's all been bad because it brought you to me. 
ROBBIE: It has not all been bad. I don't know if today that I can say it was worth it all, but I think there's a chance these dark things brought us to where we are. It's hard to let them in. It's hard to let them in. But what matters is today. 
LIAM: Day-by-day. 
ROBBIE: I'll kiss him again. 
MATT: Unless any other business in Jrusar... 
MARISHA: As we gather-- 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: -- and have a drink where we first met, Laudna goes through the arduous task of dragging a bunch of chairs and tables and boxes out and casts Animate Objects on them. 
LIAM: Yes! 
ROBBIE: Oh! (laughter) 
ROBBIE: It was you all along! (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Do we get to beat-- 
MATT: The table-- (awkward clunking) 
TALIESIN: -- the fuck out of them again? 
MARISHA: Yes! 
MATT: The chairs-- 
MARISHA: Yes, my child. Yes. 
MATT: (skittering) 
MARISHA: I recreate that very first fight that we had, fighting inanimate objects. 
MATT: All the furniture starts bashing into each other as the proprietor is back going like, "Why--" 
MARISHA: I'll pay for it. Shut up. 
MATT: "Okay." (laughter) 
MATT: All the bar patrons-- 
MARISHA: I just join them in a little spooky dance in the middle as they all dance around. 
LIAM: Oh, it's "Fantasia." 
MARISHA: Yes. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yes. (laughter) 
MATT: The patrons all watch. Terrified or spellbound, you're not sure. The beautiful display of furniture warfare shifting into furniture dance is met with a handful of claps and a couple of coins tossed your way. 
MARISHA: (gasps) Money. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Oh no. 
MARISHA: I could do this. This could be my new living. 
MATT: (laughs) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
LIAM: Too real. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I suppose while we're drinking, I'm going to come over to Fearne and sit next to you. 
ASHLEY: Oh hello. 
TALIESIN: Hey there. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Fancy meeting you here. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, what's a scoundrel like you doing in a place like this? 
ASHLEY: Oh god, no good. That's what I'm doing. 
TALIESIN: What's your plan after all this? 
ASHLEY: Well, I have a couple things that I want to do. I think at some point I would like to get to know my parents a little bit better. Birdie and Ollie. 
TALIESIN: I follow. 
ASHLEY: And I'd love to talk to Nana Morri about maybe one day, maybe studying under her because I feel like I'd be pretty good at fatestitching. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Just plucking and fucking with people's lives. (laughter) 
LIAM: That hitch was everything. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: That is... 
ASHLEY: I think I'd be good at it. 
TALIESIN: You're already pretty good at it. 
ASHLEY: Also, I've already started a collection. I know Nana has a Collection and I just want to spend more time with her. I love her and I love my home there. I would also like to go to the Unseelie Court-- 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: -- at some point and see if there's any inheritance that I might have there. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: But also, mainly, I want to get Chetney's egg. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I want to collect all five. 
TALIESIN: If I didn't know exactly what you meant right there, that would've been so dirty. (chuckling) 
ASHLEY: And then, this is a long shot, but I was thinking, since I, you know, have so much experience, professor, all the things, I wonder if they need a new spot on the Tal'Dorei Council-- (laughter) 
ASHLEY: -- because I think I'm-- 
CHRISTIAN: Collecting the Infinity Stones. 
MARISHA: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: I'm an ambassador of sorts and I'm great with people. 
TALIESIN: Well, and if they don't have a spot, one could mysteriously open up, I suppose. 
ASHLEY: Oh, I like this thinking that you have. 
TALIESIN: Well, you know, I know what you like. 
ASHLEY: Honestly, though, that feels like that would be a little bit too much responsibility. I'd rather play around with some golden threads. 
TALIESIN: Mm. Yeah, that's a nice little plan you got there.
ASHLEY: What are you thinking you wanted to do? (chuckling)
TALIESIN: Well, I'm going to get a handle on this because I don't want to, I don't want to not know myself and I don't want to be a danger. I'm going to-- I want to see a lot. I want to meet people. I want to have places to go and rest where I can see friends and family and I want to-- 
ASHLEY: Can I come with you? I just, I'd love to help, and I don't know, help you find you, and maybe me, too. 
TALIESIN: I-- I just did something monstrously heroic and that's not me. That was five seconds of my life and-- 
ASHLEY: God, brag. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Quite the opposite. I think it's a bad thing to judge who I am by. It was a moment of very, very conscious sanity that I do not know if I can replicate again in my life. 
ASHLEY: It was amazing. 
TALIESIN: Thank you. I'd love that, but not yet. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TALIESIN: I need you to-- You just told me what you want and I think you should just go home, say hi to your family. Let some time pass from that version of me, and remember all the reasons why I'm a terrible idea, and I guess what I want is I want to make sure, knowing you and knowing me, I'd love to be around you. I love every moment around you. You are fun, and you are dangerous, and hot, and funny, and probably going to get somebody killed, probably me. And I am down for whatever. I am happy to be a friend, I am happy to be a friend with benefits, I'm happy to see what you want, but what I need is for you to want-- I think I need you to be thoughtful about it. I think that's what I would ask is take some time and be thoughtful, and I want to make sure that you're not-- This is a thing I do not want you to jump into. Even if it's just casual fucking around, I want to make sure that you're not wasting your time, and I want to make sure that you're not just-- If you decide to come, I don't want you tagging along with me. I want this to be a thing that is not mine, and I-- Yeah, I just need-- That's what I would ask is for some thoughtfulness. 
ASHLEY: I like that. 
TALIESIN: Yeah? 
ASHLEY: That's a deal. 
TALIESIN: I mean, if you want to go fuck around right now, though, I'm so fucking down. 
ASHLEY: No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I need to sit alone and think about it. 
TALIESIN: Fuck! (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Goddamn it! (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Aw, man. Ah. (laughter) 
MATT: Wonderful. 
TALIESIN: Thank you. 
MATT: Does anyone else has any business in Jrusar? You said you wanted to make a trek to? 
LIAM: I want to report home with my friends from the earliest days and touch base with the Tempest. 
MATT: Okay. You can to step out, if you'd like to, buddy. Thank you. 
CHRISTIAN: Okay. Should I bring this chair? 
TALIESIN: Yay! 
TRAVIS: Just leave it. 
MATT: That trek to Zephrah you said it'd be you, Fearne, and Dorian? 
LIAM: Yeah, I was imagining something that, I know that Imogen and Laudna are going to need some time together and different adventures and werewolf training and things are happening, so once things have settled down, and I know Fearne wants to go home-home home for Fearne-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah, but I'm-- 
LIAM: -- but beforehand-- 
ASHLEY: We must. 
LIAM: -- drop into Zephrah. 
MARISHA: Crown Keepers? OG? 
ASHLEY: OG Crown Keepers, baby. 
ROBBIE: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Easy enough to coordinate via your druidic contacts-- 
ASHLEY: Family first. 
MATT: -- some of which are family. A trek back to the beautiful mountain town of Zephrah. Returning once more to your homestead, the wonderful cavalcade of colors and mountainside trees blossoming, leaves blowing through the wind as it perpetually drifts through, a wind that is as welcoming to you, Prince of the Wind, as any. 
MARISHA: Is Opal with you guys? 
ROBBIE: Opal? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
ROBBIE and LIAM: Yeah. 
LIAM: We would've scooped her up, yeah. 
MATT: All right. 
ROBBIE: Feels right. 
MATT: Opal, if you want to come join the table, please. 
SAM: Oh! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Woo! 
SAM: She's gone. 
ROBBIE: She's gone. 
MATT: (laughs) She has gone home. 
ROBBIE: Is it true? Is it true? 
MARISHA: Here she come. 
ROBBIE: (gasps) Yay! 
SAM: I see her. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah. 
SAM: Oh, wait. 
ROBBIE: She had her car keys in her hand. 
SAM: Wait, is Laura coming up? What's happening? 
AIMEE: Someone said to take the seat Christian was in. 
MATT: Yeah, so sit over here. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Come this way. 
MATT: Yeah. Other people, I think, have gone to use the restroom. 
MARISHA: Let me scooch this way, since it's Crown Keepers. 
AIMEE: Are you sure? 
MARISHA: Yeah, put you guys together. 
ROBBIE: Get the tall chair. 
SAM: Jesus. 
MATT: (laughs) 
SAM: We are so organized. 
ASHLEY: I know, I love it. 
MATT: Aren't we, though? 
LIAM: It's a game of Dungeons & Dragons. No one knows what's happening. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
AIMEE: You guys smell good. 
MARISHA: Do I? I feel like I smell like hormonal emotional BO. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
AIMEE: Smells great to me. (laughter) 
AIMEE: I'm just into that. 
MARISHA: Yeah? (laughs) 
MATT: But here in the windy villagescape of Zephrah, beautiful late afternoon, the breeze is blowing through. You step back through the winding streets of all the small mountain-built abodes. It's beautiful, it's welcoming, and it's a peaceful scene as members of the Ashari guard and other villagers look out occasionally to take note of the arrivals and recognition. People wave to you. Some go, "Orym!" you know, waving off to you in the distance. The first to greet you, a familiar, is Maeve, who comes and rushes towards the tree that you guys had arrived, meets you partway and is like, "Orym, I'm so glad you're here. Welcome, friends of Orym." 
ASHLEY: Hi. 
MATT: "Hi." 
ASHLEY: Hey. (laughs) 
MATT: "Fearne." 
ASHLEY: Yes. Maeve. 
MATT: "Yeah." 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
MATT: "Dorian." 
ROBBIE: Correct. 
LIAM: I don't think we brought Opal here. This is our friend, Opal. 
AIMEE: Hi. 
MATT: "I'm Maeve, Orym's family pod." 
AIMEE: Aww. 
MATT: "I'm myself, one of the druid guardians of the village. Kind of a talented one if I say so myself--" 
ASHLEY: Very much so. 
MATT: "-- but welcome to our home." 
AIMEE: Thank you. 
LIAM: I don't want to presume, but it would be okay if tonight or tomorrow night, if we and if I grab my mom, if we came over for one of our dinners? 
MATT: "Yeah, we could totally do that, yeah." 
LIAM: I want to stop in and visit with the Tempest, but-- 
MATT: "She's, I believe, in her chambers. Was as of this morning so you can check in there." 
LIAM: Okay. We'll swing by later tonight, if that's okay. 
MATT: "Sure, yeah. I'll go start letting folks know." 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: "It's so good to see you!" and she tugs on your cheeks for a minute. 
ROBBIE: We got sent on a real life official mission a while back. It was pretty cool. 
AIMEE: They're so warm here. 
ROBBIE: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LIAM: A lot of problems behind us, so. 
MATT: Stepping through the village and heading towards the Tempest's chambers, passing by one of the small dining watering holes of the chamber, you hear the sound of music playing in the air. A beautiful plucking. Well, somewhat beautiful plucking. It's a little off key, a little discordant, but nevertheless people seem to be enjoying it, and you hear a voice singing along. The voice is like, (Dariax) " ♪ And I once saw a girl who was down in-- ♪ No, wait, that wasn't. It was when--" 
ROBBIE: (excited noise) 
MATT: "Just go with me. ♪ La la la da da da da ♪" You immediately recognize the voice of Dariax singing. (cheers) 
ASHLEY: Oh yeah! 
ROBBIE: Let's go! 
MARISHA: Oh my god! 
MATT: You dart in from the entryway and you can see it's mostly empty. There are three elderly members of the community that to themselves, they're dressed in various gardening attire, but with their jackets off and they all have either big mugs of some sort of a light alcoholic beverage, if not just coffee, and they're all just kind of-- 
AIMEE: Tea. 
MATT: -- trying to ignore Dariax. 
ROBBIE: Is he still singing? 
MATT: He's still in the process of singing. He hasn't noticed you all yet. He's just like, " ♪ Ah la la, la la la ♪ If you take requests! Whatever you feel, then just let me know! May not know it, but I'll try. (laughs)" 
ROBBIE: Before we come in, I cast Invisibility on myself really quick. 
MATT: Okay. 
ROBBIE: I sneak up behind him and then he's going to hear finally an on-beat foot stomp behind him-- 
MATT: Yeah, he's like-- 
ROBBIE: -- and then a gentle quiet stomp and he thinks it's his inspiration, but. 
MATT: " ♪ La da ♪ That's what it was. " ♪ Oh, a gentle lady was going to town ♪ ♪ She found a-- ♪ No, I fucked it up again, but--" (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Stay on the D chord. Stay on the D chord. 
MATT: "D chord, right, right. Now, it's D. Yeah. ♪ D, D, D ♪  ♪ D chord ♪" (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Swoop, un-invisible. 
MATT: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: Ahh! 
MATT: "(screams)" 
AIMEE: (screams) 
MATT: And just full-on tackles you off the small stage that's less of a stage and more of like, it might have been a washing platform that's been used as a makeshift stage, and the minute the music stops, everyone looks over and sees it and goes, "Thank god." (applauds) (laughter) 
ROBBIE: I'm going to pull him up off of me and I go: Look! and I'm going to point his rotund little yummy body up to the friends. It's Dariax! 
ASHLEY: Dariax! 
MATT: "Hey!" 
AIMEE: Dariax! 
MATT: "Holy shit!" 
AIMEE: Hey! 
MATT: "Ah." 
AIMEE: Sorry, I don't know how to take it off yet! 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: She's good, she's good. 
MATT: "Okay!" 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: "Put me down, put me down, put me down." 
ROBBIE: Let go. Sorry, sorry. 
ASHLEY: What are you doing here? 
MATT: (thuds) He goes and run full, he's short, but he's broad armed and tackles all three of you in a big old painful hug. 
LIAM: How long have you been here? How long have you been here? 
MATT: "Well, I mean, since this asshole abandoned me here." 
ROBBIE: I was just trying, you know, I was doing the thing. You knew I was doing the thing. 
MATT: "It was a pretty cool thing." 
ROBBIE: Go on now, get! 
MATT: "I'd never be angry." 
ROBBIE: You get out of here! 
MATT: "I know, I know. It's all good. It's all good. To be fair, I was just jealous I didn't think of it first." 
ROBBIE: Nah. 
ASHLEY: Wait, did I hear that you met somebody? 
MATT: (squeaks) 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Right? Am I making this up? 
MATT: "I mean, I met a lot of people here, like--" 
ASHLEY: But like a lady friend. Am I making this up? Didn't you meet somebody? 
AIMEE: Right then, you hear. (thuds) (Deni$e) You motherfucker! (laughter) 
MATT: "(screams)" (laughter) 
AIMEE: Oh my god, do you know how long I've been fucking looking for you? (laughter) 
MATT: Dariax on the ground with Deni$e having full-on pounced on him. He's like, "Huh, wait, you didn't tell me you brought her along." 
LIAM: You're here, too? 
AIMEE: Oh my god, I haven't seen you in several weeks. (laughter) 
MATT: "How does everyone know each other? This is, hi!" 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
LIAM: It's a small, flat world, Dariax. (laughter) 
MATT: "Well, welcome to Zephrah!" 
AIMEE: She just, Deni$e gets off of him. Listen, (huffs) I've been looking for you for a long time, but I'm not going to make a scene in front of these very nice people. 
MATT: "You're right, we should not make a scene in front of these people," as he puts one of the chairs back up. (laughter) 
AIMEE: Hello. 
MATT: "She's extremely--" 
ASHLEY: Hi! 
AIMEE: Deni$e. 
ASHLEY: Hi, Deni$e. 
MATT: "Deni$e? She's wonderful." 
AIMEE: Are you going to tell them how we were pre-engaged? 
MATT: "We were pre-engaged." 
ASHLEY: Oh my goodness. 
AIMEE: Left me. Left me all alone. 
MATT: "No." 
LIAM: I get word back to the family for a couple extra seats for dinner tonight. So, we got Deni$e, we got Opal. 
ASHLEY: Yes, yes. Yes, we get everybody. 
MATT: "To be completely honest and clear on this, I did not leave you. I just got lost for six months." 
AIMEE: Okay. 
MATT: "I had intended to come back." 
AIMEE: You did? 
MATT: "Yeah!" 
AIMEE: Did you get my note? 
MATT: "No?" 
AIMEE: I sent you a really magic note from Mister-- 
MATT: "Yes, I did get that. You are correct." 
AIMEE: -- Gilmore. 
MATT: "Yes, it was beautiful. Thank you for the wonderful note. (whispers) I don't remember." 
ROBBIE: (whispers) It's okay, just go along with it. 
AIMEE: Spent a lot of money on that. 
MATT: "Yeah. That's so sweet." 
ROBBIE: You know, I know this feels like it's the time for resolutions, but maybe we should just be happy we're all together, right? 
AIMEE: That's right. 
MATT: "I am happy." 
ASHLEY: Very much so. 
MATT: "No. I'm genuinely kind of overwhelmed, but I'm so happy to see all of you. Wow. You, too, Deni$e. Oh man, there's so many things. Hold on just a second, friends." And he takes Deni$e's hand and pulls her off to the side real fast and goes like, "Hey, I'm sincerely very sorry. I didn't mean to put you on any weird space. Generally, I'm easily distracted, and there's been a lot of distractions back to back. I'm still currently distracted." And one eye's peering at all of his friends-- (laughter) 
MATT: -- and he's like, "So, just so you know, that's kind of what you got into, and I'm really sorry." 
AIMEE: Dariax, this is the most we've talked ever. (laughter) 
AIMEE: I don't even think I remember the sound of your voice. 
MATT: "How did we get engaged?" 
AIMEE: Oh, I remember, and then she kisses him. Hmm. Hmm. You know, it's not what I remember. (laughter) 
MATT: "It's the garlic dates. They're really good here." 
AIMEE: We're going to have to revisit this, but thank you for your apology. 
MATT: "Of course. Happy to apologize. Sincerely apologizing again. You're very nice, and you're very pretty, and I'm sorry if I put you through any trouble." 
AIMEE: Thank you. 
MATT: "We good?" 
AIMEE: TBD. 
MATT: Tibbide. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
AIMEE: Gives him a wink. (laughter) 
MATT: "Ah, my god, you're all here!" Goes and he's like, "Opal, you look clean." 
AIMEE: (Opal) I cleaned up. If only I could take this fucking crown off my head. That would be nice. 
MATT: "I could try." 
AIMEE: You want to just give it a tug? 
MATT: "Sure. Ow!" 
AIMEE: (grunts) 
MATT: "Oh, that hurts! God!" (screams) 
AIMEE: Did it come off? 
MATT: No, but his hands are bleeding. 
AIMEE: Oh no! 
MATT: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: Heal Wounds. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: (mumbles) 
MATT: "All right, yeah." 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: "Well, that's a tomorrow problem." 
AIMEE: I'm sorry I sent you off with that spell and my accents are getting fucked up. (laughter) (knowing noises) 
MARISHA: One of us. 
AIMEE: I really wanted to send you off safely. 
MATT: "I am sure there is wisdom to the choices you made that I can't grasp." 
AIMEE: That's very kind. 
MATT: "It is, honest, I can't grasp a lot of wisdom, but you know what? We're here. You seem to not be doing as bad. You seem to be happier than last I saw you. You? You all look amazing." 
LIAM: Dariax, do you know what's going on in the world? Have you heard any news? 
MATT: "Yeah, no. We had a really, really crazy rainstorm about three days ago." 
ROBBIE: Mm. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: "We had to fix some of the gutters outside. The colors in the sky went away. That might have something to do with the storm. I think the storm washed it away." 
AIMEE: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: Mm. 
MATT: "Why? What's going on?" 
LIAM: Ah, we'll tell you over dinner. 
MATT: "Okay." 
LIAM: Come on over to my old place. 
SAM: "Sure!" 
LIAM: Okay? 
MATT: "Yeah, totally! What time? I have an afternoon gig." 
LIAM: Oh, this is in the evening, so we're going to be stopping by to see the Voice of the Tempest-- 
MATT: "Great." 
LIAM: -- for a bit. 
MATT: "Yes, I remember her." 
LIAM: Come back here around sundown to pick you up. 
MATT: "30 past sundown, I should be done by about then." 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: The proprietor comes down. He's like, "Honestly, just take him. It's fine. We'll pay you." (laughter) 
MATT: "Take the night off. You got friends here. Take tomorrow night off. You know, take the whole week. Yeah, you know, go for it." (laughter) 
MATT: He's like, "Really?" "Yeah." "(laughs) Georgea's a great guy. Appreciate you, Georgea! He's like, "Yeah." 
AIMEE: (laughs) Deni$e starts packing up the gear. Just everything. 
ROBBIE: Roadie. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Yes. 
MATT: "Well, great. I'll show you around. I got some new-- Well, I got a back room in one of the barns here that they're letting me stay pretty cheap. Yeah, I'll take you around. Wait, you're going to see the Tempest first, right?" 
LIAM: That's right. 
MATT: "All right, you know what? We'll finish cleaning up here. I'll see you in a little bit. All right." He starts putting his stuff away. "Deni$e, could you help me pack up a little bit here?" 
AIMEE: (Deni$e) Oh yeah, sure. Say my name again. 
MATT: "D-D-Deni$e." 
AIMEE: Yeah, that's right. 
MATT: "That is right? Great. Awesome." (laughter) 
LIAM: Opal, you coming? 
AIMEE: (Opal) Yes! (laughter) 
AIMEE: It's hard! 
MARISHA: You know, right? (laughter) 
SAM: What about you, She-Ra? (laughter) 
AIMEE: Netflix canceled us! I don't know! (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Ah. 
MATT: Echoing through the heavens over Tal'Dorei. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Oh, that hurt. 
MATT: Well-- 
TRAVIS: Oh my god. 
MATT: While Deni$e and Dariax stay behind, the four of you present Crown Keepers step to the beautiful large building in the core of the center of Zephrah, where you see the beautiful vine-wrapped balcony and the almost a cottage library vibe of this structure. You have these beautiful tree-grown poles and the thatched, woven roof that seems to sprout outward. It's almost changed through the seasons, you know? Throughout the year, some of these buildings almost shift with the weather and the seasons, and as the druids find inspiration, they can shift some of the more natural buildings here to match that time of the year, and the city itself is almost changing in places along with the season itself. It doesn't take too long before eventually, you are shown up to the chamber door, to the Tempest's room, which itself lies partially ajar. Keyleth. 
MARISHA: (Keyleth) Yes, hello. 
MATT: You have the arrival. 
LIAM: (Orym) (knocks) 
LIAM and MARISHA: Hi. 
MARISHA: Savior Blade. 
LIAM: Tempest. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MARISHA: I just give him a big hug. I-- 
LIAM: Um-- 
MARISHA: I hope you've been getting some much needed rest and downtime. 
LIAM: I could say the same for you. 
MARISHA: Yeah. I have, actually. It's been nice. Try to relish the moments of rest. 
LIAM: I know that your hands were immediately full in Vasselheim. 
MARISHA: Yeah, you know, whatever. They're fine. They'll figure it out on their own. Sometimes you just have to let them tire themselves out with bickering. They'll learn soon enough that Exandria keeps spinning. 
LIAM: Yeah. Oh. This is, you know Dorian and Fearne, this is our friend, Opal. 
MARISHA: Hi. 
AIMEE: (Opal) Hello. Excuse my appearance. 
MARISHA: Hi. 
AIMEE: Full disclosure, I was the Spider Queen's champion, but just fuck her, just between us. (laughter) 
MARISHA: No, no, no. I-- (laughter) 
MARISHA: No, I saw you, actually. I recognize you. 
AIMEE: (gasps) 
MARISHA: When we were fighting at the Malleus Key. 
AIMEE: Yeah, yeah. I was really in the zone and I had arms and-- 
MARISHA: Yeah, we didn't really converse, but I saw you and I was like, Oh, she's-- She's kicking ass. 
AIMEE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
AIMEE: For the wrong team, it turned out, but. 
MARISHA: I think we were all on the same team that day. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
MARISHA: So, you did well. 
AIMEE: Thank you for having us, your majesty? 
MARISHA: Keyleth's fine. 
AIMEE: Okay, yeah. 
MARISHA: It gets weird. 
AIMEE: Right. 
MARISHA: I like your crown. 
AIMEE: Thanks. I wish I could get it off! Ah! 
MARISHA: Oh yeah, okay. (laughter) 
MARISHA: This one can come off. 
AIMEE: It can? 
MARISHA: Yeah. I don't know why I said that. That's a weird thing to say. 
AIMEE: No, no, it's-- (laughter) 
AIMEE: Lucky you. 
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah. Tea? 
LIAM: Yes. 
MARISHA: Wine? Wine? 
ASHLEY: (Fearne) Yeah. 
LIAM: Let's have some wine. 
MARISHA: She loves her wine. She loves her pinot. 
LIAM: Let's have some wine. 
LIAM: It's a Zephran vintage, yes? 
MATT: Open a bottle-- 
MARISHA: Yes. (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LIAM: Yes, please. 
MATT: You push past the Lionetts and the Stassmans. 
MARISHA: Yeah. Ooh! Yes, actually, this is a rare bottle. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
SAM: Uncommon? 
MARISHA: Orym, you open it. 
LIAM: (pops cork) 
MARISHA: Thank you. Jeez. 
MATT: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: (pops cork) 
TRAVIS: (pops cork) 
MARISHA: Pour some glasses. 
MATT: All right. 
ASHLEY: Thank you. 
LIAM: What am I here to say? 
MARISHA: I don't know. Are you okay? 
LIAM: Yeah. Yes, I am. The first thing I'd like to say is just how grateful I am to you for your faith in me. Your winds have kept me aloft in ways that maybe you don't know, but I'm grateful for it, and I just wanted to make sure that I said thanks, Keyleth. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
LIAM: It's meant a lot. Tempest, it's meant a lot. 
MARISHA: Faith isn't something that's given, it's proven. I mean, I saw who you were. I saw the nature of your heart. That's why I put you on my guard to begin with, Orym. You've earned this. Nothing was granted. 
LIAM: Yes, and that gets to the second thing that I've come here to ask. You've had me on the road for a long time. I love coming home, but part of me has gotten used to the road. Maybe I picked that up spending so much time around you. 
MARISHA: (chuckles) 
LIAM: I would still very much like to be of service to you as your blade, but I'm hoping I can do it still in an emissary capacity and be your eyes around the world as I have been. I have some places to go. My own Aramente, if you will. I have to visit Fearne's family past the veil. I have some responsibilities there and some new responsibilities. and some new responsibilities. 
MARISHA: Being the Savior Blade was never equated to your proximity to me. You've always been an extension, not just of the Tempest, but of Zephrah. I wouldn't want anything else. For better or for worse, Zephrah and the Ashari, we have a place on a global scale. That's what I fought so hard for alongside the rest of Vox Machina. It would be an honor for you to continue to uphold and represent the Ashari. 
LIAM: Good news is I don't have to do it alone. I take his hand. I've found someone. 
MARISHA: Oh! [faint crew laughter] 
MATT: (laughs) 
LIAM: For the longest time, I've walked under the light of the moons, but I think it's time I spent some time with the sun in the clear blue sky. 
ROBBIE: He's really got a way with words. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: And a 30-foot vertical leap. (laughter) 
LIAM: Only around you. 
MARISHA: You deserve happiness. You've sacrificed a lot. Not just for this city, but for me. I know what you lost in that time, and I think about it every day. I think about every life that has fallen that may or may not have been from a choice that I've made. The only thing that I can hope for is peace for anyone who has served that time. 
LIAM: Orym drops all the responsibility and the duty and the position and the way he carries himself around the Tempest and walks forward and hugs Keyleth. 
MARISHA: She embraces him back. 
LIAM: I want that for you, too. Happiness for you, too. You deserve it. 
MARISHA: I'm finding my peace. It's a marathon, not a sprint. We shouldn't expect anything to happen overnight. Except for the things that happen overnight, which feels like a lot in Exandria. But that's-- We'll unpack that at a later date. 
LIAM: You'd be surprised what you can pack into a week. 
MARISHA: You're telling me. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: Almost feels like four years. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Especially when you're jumping across every time zone, every time zone on every continent. The tree lag, it's-- 
AIMEE: Tree lag. (laughs) 
MARISHA: -- it's wild. Yeah. 
MATT: You're telling me. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (sighs) Should I top everybody off? 
ROBBIE: Please. 
MATT: (laughs) You share your wine and share your stories before eventually the sun begins to turn low in the sky. 
MARISHA: She gets a little tipsy and she's like: You're all, like, honorary Ashari. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: You know what's so great? I felt it. I mean, the first time we came here, I was like, I think I feel like I'm an Ashari. 
MARISHA: If you ever need, like, a place to crash. 
ASHLEY: Really? 
MARISHA: If you need a bed. 
AIMEE: Wow. That's so nice. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. You're just-- I love you. 
AIMEE: That's so nice. 
MARISHA: Especially you, wind guy. You, man. 
ROBBIE: I felt connected to the-- 
AIMEE: You've never heard him sing. You've never heard him sing. 
ROBBIE: No one's ever heard me sing. 
AIMEE: It's a very good voice. 
ROBBIE: It's okay. 
AIMEE: Oh, it's very good. 
MARISHA: You should replace that guy down at the tavern. 
ROBBIE: Shh! Oh, no, no. He's a friend. 
MARISHA: Oh, he's a friend? Oh my god. 
ROBBIE: He's almost like a protégé-- a brotégé. 
MARISHA: A brotégé. 
ROBBIE: Like a brotégé. 
AIMEE: Yeah, yeah. 
ROBBIE: Hey, could you, since we're being silly, could you do me a favor? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: You were our first ever mission. Could you say: Mission complete, Crown Keepers. 
MARISHA: Oh, how about-- I got it. 
ROBBIE: But you have to take off your sunglasses while you do it. 
MARISHA: Okay. Hang on, wait. I've got a stamp somewhere. I've got a stamp for-- 
ROBBIE: A stamp? 
ASHLEY: Times like these? 
MARISHA: Yeah, for, I don't know. 
MATT: You clap your hands, everyone's like, "Yes, Tempest?" 
MARISHA: Oh shit, I didn't-- No. Where's my stamp? 
MATT: "Right away, Tempest." (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Oh, it says mission complete? 
MARISHA: It says-- It's like a seal, a seal of the Ashari. 
AIMEE: It says: Ladies and gentlemen, we got them. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Whoa! 
MATT: Comes back in with a woodblock stamp on a pillow and is like-- 
MARISHA: Okay. 
ROBBIE: Is it hot wax? 
MARISHA: I stamp-- 
ROBBIE: (screams) (laughter) 
MARISHA: Mission accomplished. 
ROBBIE: Yes! 
AIMEE: Woo! 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
MARISHA: You all get experience points. (laughter) 
MATT: That's not how this works. (laughter) 
MATT: No, you do, you do. 
LIAM: You should pull off, instead of sunglasses, it's all the antlers. (laughter) 
MATT: Eventually, before you get too trashed, you say your good evening to the Tempest and stumble back into the end of the daylight streets of Zephrah, heading back towards where your mother is and where dinner is also awaiting you. Along the way, you can't help but catch vision of Shendunei, the half-orc, one of the advisors to the Tempest, who is walking an unexpected troop through. You see three Reiloran children and a young bormodo being walked through the town along with one adult, all swaddled up with cloaks. They're all just being shown some of the exterior gardens. It's like watching this stoic advisor suddenly in a professorial role or a guide role, talking about the different flowers and teaching the children of where they come from and hands one of the flowers to a kid. As the kid holds it, they smell it, and you watch as they drift their finger upward and it grows and blossoms and the kids laugh and look at each other. One of them looks back at your troop. One of them, you swear it doesn't recognize you, but there's almost a moment of recognition before it goes back to the flower. You continue on to your home where your mother awaits and a grand dinner, as Dariax and his on again, off again, maybe never on, but maybe probably on fiancée, friend, roadie, girl, Deni$e there awaits with a grand meal, grand stories, and grand laughter. Now, in the times to come, Now, in the times to come, weeks, months, years, whatever it may be, Chetney Pock O'Pea, what's in the future for you? 
LIAM: Roll those dice. 
MATT: Short term. 
TRAVIS: Oh, that's fair, yeah. 
MATT: (laughs) I will lose my fucking shit. 
ROBBIE: Come on. 
TALIESIN: Please. 
MATT: We will go to Vegas. 
ASHLEY: Come on, come on. 
MARISHA: I want it to happen-- 
SAM: Please die. 
AIMEE: -- so bad. 
LAURA: Please die, please die, please die. 
MARISHA: You're giving yourself advantage? 
ROBBIE: Ugh. 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Ooh! 
MARISHA: Wait, this one's cocked. 
TRAVIS: It's a single digit. 
MARISHA: That one's cocked. 
TRAVIS: It didn't matter. 
MARISHA and AIMEE: (gasp) 
TRAVIS: That's a one. 
MARISHA: It is, but it's cocked. 
TRAVIS: I know. 
MARISHA: It was so close! It was almost trip zeroes, almost. 
LIAM: Did you get a feeling? 
LAURA: (laughs) 
LIAM: Oh! 
TALIESIN: (rapid heartbeats) (single heartbeat) 
TRAVIS: (grunts) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT and LIAM: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: Yeah. Still here. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Breaking records. 
MATT: Thank you, by the way, if you don't mind. 
TRAVIS: Oh, yes. 
AIMEE: What? 
MATT: You're good if you want to. 
LAURA: Oh. 
AIMEE: Oh, thank you. 
TRAVIS: Aimee! 
MATT: Thank you so much, Aimee. 
MARISHA: Musical guest chairs. 
MATT: I know, everyone juggling around. 
ROBBIE: Woo! 
ASHLEY: We love you. 
MATT: Thank you, Aimee! 
LAURA: We love you, Aimee! 
AIMEE: Thank you too. 
ROBBIE: Oh! You did great. 
AIMEE: Yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
TRAVIS: I think Chetney probably would've been a little lost, but knowing that FRIDA's now going through the same thing that he was going through, I think he's excited to be a mentor. But I also think he's probably going to get bored pretty fast. So whether it's going to visit the Gorgynei or maybe seeing if Dorian needs a hand on anything that he's going to pursue, I think he'll just stay around as a hand for hire. 
MATT: Okay. So you introduce FRIDA to the Gorgynei and let them become the teachers, as opposed to cleansing the curse of lycanthropy, but to embrace it. 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
MATT: To control it. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: And such as-- 
TRAVIS: Don't give up such a gift. 
MATT: As such, the first mechanical werewolf of Exandria begins their journey. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: "Metal Wolf." 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: We are Metal Wolf. (laughter) 
MARISHA: What was that where the-- 
MATT: So fucking cool. 
MARISHA: With the, yeah, "Transformers," but animals? Whatever. 
TALIESIN: "Beast Wars." 
MATT: Yeah, "Beast Wars." 
MARISHA: Yeah, that's right! 
MATT: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Now. (laughter) 
MATT: Okay. So being a hand for hire to Dorian and allies around, you probably, at some point, trek back to Uthodurn at some point as the years go on where Oltgar's Chest is thriving underneath Oltgar once again with proper artisan craftsmanship, up and coming crafters and creators, and Drixlitch is nowhere to be seen. But here, as the training progresses, and Oltgar takes you into his heavy grasp and excited to show you the new lines they're designing and developing, the apprenticeship program referred to as the Pock O'Pea Path. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Whoa! 
ROBBIE: A little PP? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I'm on the PP. (laughter) 
MATT: "I'm halfway through the PP, Mr. Pock O'Pea." 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: "But I'm extremely--" 
TRAVIS: Can't stop in the middle! It hurts too much. (laughter) 
LIAM: And then I spit water everywhere. 
MATT: But there is a rising new wave of crafters, creators, tinkerers, chiselers, and carvers that now are trained and raised underneath the Pock O'Pea means of craft and creation, an extension of the great impact you've left on Exandria. Mr. Pock O'Pea, High Hunter and Lupine Paragon. 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
LAURA: Hmm. 
MATT: Lady Fearne Calloway, Fey Scion of the Ancient Flame. What lies ahead for you in the short- and long-term, do you think? 
ASHLEY: Ooh, yes. Definitely going back home and spending some time with Nana and I would love to study under her. I know she has a long time left here. 
MATT: (Morri 1) "And she's very eager and excited to show you the true breadth of her ability." 
ASHLEY: I would love to learn. 
MATT: "And don't forget, for the time being, no one's watching the skein." 
ASHLEY: Like right now? 
MATT: "Fate is ours to pluck." 
SAM: Oh boy. 
LAURA: Oh fuck. 
ASHLEY: Can I just-- 
MATT: "Sure, sure." 
ASHLEY: Any one? 
MATT: "Pick one." 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Ow! 
ASHLEY: Eeny meeny miny moe, Catch a tiger by its toe. If he hollers, let him go. Eeny, meeny, miny, moe. (plucks) 
MATT: And you (string plucking) it's like-- 
ASHLEY and MATT: (string vibrating) 
TALIESIN: Roll. Sorry. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: (gearing up noises) Oh! (sighs and laughter) 
MARISHA: It'd be so poetic, it'd be so poetic. 
MATT: But it's interesting, as you pluck and pull it up, you suddenly have a vision of an alleyway, some dark, mid-evening, mud-covered alleyway, high, three, four-story rickety buildings you could see. A figure is currently stalking through it. You see half obscured, a sense of nervousness and a dart as they come upon the outside of a horse-drawn cart that emerges from the exterior of the alleyway. They leap up and grab onto the side of it unseen and duck into its shadow. You see them draw a blade from beyond their inside of their cloak and re-hide it from within. As you release it, you got a brief glimpse of somebody's thread. You're not sure if it's where they are, where they were, where they're going to be. But in that brief instant, you realize the immensity of the power that you have briefly at your disposal and why your Nana's fiddling was so unwelcome under the gaze of the Matron. "Now, we must be respectful." 
ASHLEY: Of course, of course. 
MATT: "We only truly (laughs) watch, learn, kind of voyeuristically." 
ASHLEY: Love it. 
MATT: "Just to be around. If someone really needs something taken care of, then we bargain and then we can knot." She takes one and ties it up for a brief second. "(laughs)" Releases it. "Someone just had a very bad day." 
ASHLEY: Oh no. (giggles) All right, I'll be so, so responsible. I'll be so responsible. 
MATT: "In time. Your training has only just begun," and she throws her cloak over you. Your vision washes back and you're back inside the manor. She's like, "There is much time, and I'm very excited to show you. There's whole elements of this manor that I haven't even been able to reveal to you yet." 
ASHLEY: I'm so excited, I love the manor. 
MATT: "The roots go so deep." 
ASHLEY: Yes! I love you. Thank you for taking care of me. 
MATT: "Of course. And, well, with your family here now as well, it's nice to feel like the tree is growing with energy (laughs)." A bird flies in, just like (cawing), and its head splits open and shrieks and Morrigan is just like, "Oh, we have a guest. Interesting." She leads you down through the garden and down through the tree. Your mother is in the process of washing dishes and gives you a wave as you go by. 
ASHLEY: Hi, Mama. 
MATT: (Birdie) "Oh, hi Fearne." And head down to the base of the tree. 
LAURA: You missed the scariest. 
MATT: And the vines withdraw. I'm going to change this to some proper atmosphere for this. The vines pull back and reveal nothing. 
ASHLEY: I don't see anything. 
MATT: Then a strange shape (dripping). 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
MATT: -- withdraws from the ceiling and unfolds as a spider-like figure drops to the ground and rises up and produces a dark purple flowered bouquet. (Ira) "Morrigan, my sweet," and hands it out, and Nana Morri goes, "Oh, why Ira, how nice to have you visit." 
ASHLEY: Hi, Ira. 
MATT: (Ira) "Oh, I didn't realize you were here. Fearne Calloway, the pleasure is mine. How long are you staying?" 
ASHLEY: I don't know. Maybe forever. 
MATT: "Should I come back later?" 
ASHLEY: No, you can stay. 
MATT: Morri goes, "Oh, don't worry, you can stay. I have a guest room. My room." (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Yes. Queen shit. (laughter) 
MATT: Of course, Ira steps in and begins to vanish into the shadow above before turning back and being like, "Well, maybe we'll have a chance to catch up a bit, Fearne Calloway." 
ASHLEY: I would love to. 
MATT: "I'm glad you're still around." 
ASHLEY: I'm glad you're still around. 
MATT: "You know they're looking for you." 
ASHLEY: Sounds fun. 
MATT: "Maybe they'll find you in time." 
ASHLEY: In time? For what? 
MATT: "To make up for slaughtering one of their princes. Your father." 
ASHLEY: Oh well. I did, we did, I did it. All right, I'll figure that out when that time comes. (laughter) 
MATT: "Sweet dreams, Fearne Calloway." Disappears into shadow. You take it in for a minute, look back, and you see your Nana Morri. She's like, "(sighs) He's so creepy." 
ASHLEY: He's so creepy, he's so creepy. 
MATT: (Morri 2) "I love him," in her chest, (Morri 1) "Shh!" (laughter) 
MATT: "Would you like a cocktail?" 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
MATT: As you scatter up into the now even further vibrant and lively Ligament Manor, the sound of soft music, the clattering of bones as wind pushes its way through the boughs, the whistling of your father as he tends to the garden, the numerous creatures that raised you and live amongst you, this odd, weird, nightmarish home. 
ASHLEY: It's my home. 
MATT: Do you see yourself continuing this for some time? Any other business you'd like to at least begin to pursue in the future? 
ASHLEY: I think in the future I would love to go on some type of adventure to find all of Chetney's eggs. 
MARISHA and LAURA: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: And I also-- 
LIAM: (Caleb) I'll see you in hell, Calloway. (laughter) 
MATT: Tell you what. 
LAURA: PvP? 
MATT: I'll tell you what. Roll four sleight of hand checks for me. 
ASHLEY: Ooh, okay! 
SAM: Four? 
ASHLEY: Okay, all right. 
SAM: Guidance. 
ASHLEY: Guidance? No. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: All right. Oh wow, okay. First one, sleight of hand, 18 plus 14. 
SAM: Jesus. 32? 
MATT: Okay, yeah. 
MARISHA: 14! 
MATT: That was a 15 DC for the first one, 20 for the next. 
ASHLEY: Another 18. 
SAM: 32. 
LAURA: Wow. 
MATT: All right. 
SAM: Do it again. 
MATT: Two eggs procured. 
ASHLEY: Uh, 19? 
MATT: Mm. The third one's messy. You almost get caught, maybe take a few hits and there might be a warrant out for your arrest. 
ASHLEY: That's all right. 
MATT: We'll find out later. 
LIAM: Is that my egg? 
LAURA: Is that Caleb's? 
MATT: No, not yet. 
ASHLEY: Woo! All right, 17 plus 14. 
SAM: 31. 
MATT: Okay, so you have three of the five eggs in your possession eventually, but two evade you and maybe we'll explore those down the road. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Love it. 
MARISHA: Easter one shot. It's an egg hunt. (laughter) 
LAURA: The great egg hunt. 
MARISHA: Fearne's great egg hunt. 
LIAM: Infiltrate the tower. 
MARISHA: Tower infiltration. 
ASHLEY: I think also-- 
ROBBIE: You've already been in the walls. 
MARISHA: Yeah, that's true. 
MATT: That's true. 
ASHLEY: A goal that I think Fearne would have for the rest of time until it is figured out, is trying to release Opal from that crown. 
MATT: I love that. 
ASHLEY: And so I try to study and do whatever I can-- All my studying. I'm so all so good at research, trying to figure out how one day to free her from that. 
MATT: I love that, great. 
LIAM: Pluck those fate strings. 
MATT: Ashton the Reforged, Hammer of Paradox, what do you see as your short and long-term intent? 
TALIESIN: Well, Ashton is definitely-- I think I need to spend some time figuring out a little bit more about what is in their head and how it works. And preferably not with the Bright Queen or anybody in Xhorhas. So talking to Essek and spending some time over there and getting my healing up. 
MATT: Essek is definitely fascinated. Slightly perturbed, definitely deeply curious about what you are, because what you are should not exist. But indeed, the Bright Queen-- hunting isn't the right word, but you do notice yourself being followed. You do have invitations to Rosohna brought to your attention. You are invited as a wonderfully storied guest to the Kryn Dynasty at the behest of the Bright Queen. They are interested, they are watching, not aggressively, but they definitely are letting you know that you're on their radar. 
TALIESIN: I take some time-- I'll also say the hammer had a very bad time and has now been carved down from that pick into a sphere that has been polished up. In that sphere, is a version of what's in their head of that point and the molecular solar system in the center of it with the starscape that's infinite. It's almost a gyroscope so that when it spins, it finds its own gravity. They start taking jobs as muscle on archeological digs all over Exandria. They're finding things for Essek, things in especially buried temples now. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: Finding artifacts of the old gods and bringing them up for anything from the previous followers or otherwise, finding things for friends and occasionally inviting friends on little adventures that pay reasonably well. Especially Braius because I have no charisma and people hate me and you are, for all of your awful, are charming as hell. And it's worth every penny that I have to pay you for it. I stop by a few times. I try and stop by as regularly as possible. 
ASHLEY: Always welcome. 
TALIESIN: Mm. Always say hi to Nana Morri first. 
ASHLEY: That's wise. 
TALIESIN: Mm. I spend some time. Sometimes I invite you to go-- 
SAM: (sneezes) 
TALIESIN: -- on an adventure. Sometimes I-- 
ASHLEY: Shut. Up. 
MATT and LAURA: (laugh) 
TALIESIN: And sometimes it's the asking if you have anywhere you want to go and you need some muscle so that you don't tire yourself out on occasion, not that you need it. Someone to carry the bags. 
ASHLEY: Wonderful. 
TALIESIN: Eventually, I try and make a deal with Ira, Nana Morri to see if I can finally go to Xhorhas and make a deal, make sure that I can get out of there. Have a plan, be smart. 
MATT: Okay. Maybe we'll explore that some point later on. 
TALIESIN: We will. If that goes well, they keep finding new places to go and they keep finding new parts of Exandria, probably a few more trips to the moon, to Ruidus. And they make their way out. They eventually come back until one day they don't. Who knows where they went, who knows what happened? 
MATT: Hmm. All right. Braius. 
SAM: Oh. 
MATT: (laughs) Braius Doomseed, painter of violence and treachery. 
SAM: I think I will pursue art a good deal. Just dive into it. Pour myself into my artwork, making grander and grander paintings and developing a name for myself. I do one study that's a bunch of very artful nudes of Nana Morri. (laughter) 
SAM: That is a sensation. 
ASHLEY: That was my favorite. 
ROBBIE: Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah. 
SAM: It's a sensation. Makes a name for myself. I keep coming back to this motif of painting evil babies. (laughter) 
SAM: That's what I'm sort of, eventually, it's what I'm known for. 
MARISHA: Oh my gosh. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yes. (laughter) 
SAM: I tour Exandria, showing my artwork. 
LAURA: (Jester) You definitely have a show at Jester's gallery. 
SAM: Of course. 
ASHLEY: Oh, of course. 
SAM: Of course I do. 
MATT: Yeah, how does your-- Does your faith develop with the Traveler? 
SAM: Well, when I'm visiting Jester, Jester's gallery, at night, when I'm-- All while developing a name for myself, there's this lingering fear that something is out there waiting for me or watching me. And so yes, at Jester's, when I see Jester, I will ask her to please introduce me. Teach me her ways. I think I just need one more ally who can protect me from a god. 
LAURA: Oh yeah. I mean, totally. You can definitely, you know. Here's the deal, though. I'm going to be totally real with you. The Traveler's like not really a god. I mean, which is good, though, because all the gods disappeared. So he's, you know, he's doing pretty good. So, but yeah, I'll teach you everything I know. And you will-- You also can just totally hang out here if you want to. You know? 
SAM: Is it safe? 
LAURA: It's always safe with me and Fjord. We will protect you. We have your back, Braius. 
SAM: Is that true, Fjord? 
TRAVIS: (Fjord) Yes, of course. I mean-- (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Jester has a tremendous nose for good character. 
LAURA: Oh my gosh. You know what? You could totally go work-- You could hang out at the Lavish Chateau 
SAM: Lavish Chateau, yes. 
ASHLEY: Oh, Braius. 
SAM: And do and what? Paint? 
LAURA: You could paint, you could just live there. You know, just be my best friend, if you want to be. I really like painters. 
SAM: All right. 
TRAVIS: And the Ruby always needs extra muscle. 
LAURA: Yeah, you're really strong, you know? 
SAM: Oh yeah. 
LAURA: Bluud is always looking for a right-hand man. 
SAM: I could work security there, sure. 
LAURA: Yeah. But you're kind of a famous painter, you probably don't need to do that. 
SAM: Well, I don't. If I need to hide out, it seems like a good option. Thank you. 
LAURA: Of course. 
SAM: It was serendipitous meeting you. And from that point forward, all of my paintings contain a hidden dick. 
MATT: I love it. 
LAURA: Yes. 
MATT: Which begins from the night that something's missing from one of your pieces. That you're up late staring at your partially finished canvas and trying to figure out what signifies it before a voice creeps in from the shadow. 
SAM: Jesus, god! 
MATT: (The Traveler) "I think it's missing something." 
SAM: Oh! 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MARISHA: Oh my god. 
SAM: You're not Asmodeus. 
MATT: "Or am I?" 
SAM: Oh god, don't kill me. Don't kill me yet. 
MATT: "Say your last words." 
SAM: Oh! I love Suzy Greene! (laughter) 
MATT: "That was a weird one. That was-- I don't even know what that means." 
SAM: You're-- 
MATT: "No. Right here," and a hand reaches over your shoulder and you see a green hanging sleeve and a long, slender finger points. "Just a just a little dick, right there." 
SAM: All right. And I paint it. 
MATT: "That's what finished it. Beautiful, you are quite an artist." 
SAM: Thank you? 
MATT: You turn around and see the bright orange-red curls and the green hood of some sort of ephemeral, ethereal fey-like entity. "So, my sweet Jester seems to think you need some guidance." 
SAM: I could use some, yes. I feel like I do better when I'm acting at the behest of a great power. 
MATT: "Strangely enough." 
MARISHA: Absurd. 
MATT: "I happen to know great power that needs somebody to be at its behest. It's me, I'm talking about me." 
SAM: Okay, okay. I didn't want to presume. 
MATT: "I'm the Traveler. Hi, welcome, you're part of the club." 
SAM: All right. 
MATT: "Pleasure to meet you, Braius. Oh, we're going to have a lot of fun, aren't we? (laughs)" 
SAM: Yes, we will. 
MATT: "When the cats are away, the mice--" 
SAM: The cows. Oh, the mice, sure. 
MATT: "-- will play." (laughter) 
MATT: "Take that, Moonweaver." (laughter) 
SAM: And so begins a beautiful, weird friendship. 
MATT: Yes. (laughter) 
MATT: Orym of the Ashari, Savior Blade of the Tempest, what is your short-term and long-term? 
LIAM: Well, I think it's pretty intertwined with Dorian's. He is a Tempest Blade. He will always be a Tempest Blade and serves his home gladly, eagerly, but I think he splits his time between sort of operational discussions and family time at home with traveling with Dorian in the sky. I don't know the answer to this, but I know that there's some sort of a succession line. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
LIAM: That is a possibility for Dorian. I don't know if that factors in. 
ROBBIE: We have some freedom, I think, after this. I spoke with both of my parents and they're still young and relatively healthy and what I always wanted was their blessing and I took it from them. So we have-- I have permission to be free, from the people that matter most. 
MATT: To that point, Dorian Storm, Master Muse and Son of the Wind, since your fates are, for the moment, entwined, you both can build off of each other, if you'd like. 
LIAM: I think there's also a thread. Even though Nana Morri never came a-calling to debate the details of the pact and whether or not Orym was astray of it or not, I think because of how close Fearne is to Nana Morri and because of how Nana's help was present every step of the way for them, he still visits and is, within reason, of service to the Fatestitcher as well, within reason. He knows that Fearne has a balancing effect on her grandmother. 
MATT: During one of those treks, suddenly, you find yourself stumbling through the Ligament Manor and the halls get darker and darker until there's just a long hallway and Nana Morri with her lantern. (Morri 1) "Orym." 
LIAM: You took your time. 
MATT: "Welcome. It seems we have unfinished business." 
LIAM: Do we? 
MATT: "We had a deal." 
LIAM: We did. 
MATT: "Mm-hmm." 
LIAM: We did. 
MATT: (air whooshing) You're shunted up before her like some sort of magical force pulls you in and her face that's close to yours, the lantern light glowing from underneath. "And?" 
LIAM: Well, far be it for me to dicker with a Fey powerhouse. But I would argue that I thread that needle. 
MATT: "What you made was an offering of a deal with an Archfey creature that could not possibly be held up on my end. I can't keep you all safe coming there from the moon. What are you talking about? That's entirely up to you. You get yourselves killed, that's your own fault. There's no deal, you're fine." (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Yes! 
TRAVIS: Amazing. 
MATT: "How could I possibly keep all of you safe? My powers are pretty strong here around the Manor in my realm, but I have no idea what the heck you were dealing with on Ruidus. So you're fine! Enjoy." 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "Travel safe." 
ROBBIE: Orym's sending stone on his chest lights up and he just hears my voice going: What did she say? How much trouble are you in? (laughter) 
LIAM: Do you want to go to the bar and have a drink? 
ROBBIE: I'm already there. They gave me a gig. It's a Thursday night, there's usually no one here. I think they're going to let me do it for a portion of the sales! (laughter) 
LIAM: But also you, do you want to go have a drink? I need to calm my nerves. 
MATT: "I thought you'd never ask." 
LIAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: She puts her hand out. 
LIAM: This fucking place. (laughter) 
MATT: Perfect. What about you, Dorian? 
ROBBIE: Yeah. I think in the short term, his days are spent in freedom and peace with Orym when he's around. I think they have trust between them because I think he is a steadfast lover and a friend. So when he goes away, though, Dorian is still Dorian. Some things are not for him and he still has a zest for life. He still wants these experiences, and though he's faithful in a romantic way to Orym, he does tend to get in some trouble on his own. So through the years, as he gets older and experiences more of the world, something happens and he doesn't quite clock it when it happens, but he stops being the boy that always feels like he's on the outside, and he somehow becomes the man who can be a tie that binds. So when it's right, not for him, but for the people that he loves, he'll send up a flare and sometimes it'll be Coriolis rapping on the door of Chetney when there's a heist to pull. Or sometimes it'll be a whisper in the wind in Imogen's mind for both her and Laudna, wherever they may be when there's a fun event to go to or a little trouble to get into. He definitely gave another sending stone to Opal and they chat and kick their heels on beds, and he calls up Braius and Ashton whenever there's real trouble, and I'll always, always talk to Fearne. He's just there for all of his friends and they don't always answer because life is messy and life is difficult and everyone has their own thing, but when everyone gets together, or they get together in bits and pieces, it's just the reminder he needs of why he left home in the first place, and for him for a long time, maybe forever. Who knows? Ah, that's what gives his life meaning. That was the experience that he always wanted to have, so he finds fulfillment in the most important connection of his life, and the friends that surround him for sure, yeah. 
MATT: Love that. I guess that leaves us with Laudna, Veil Mistress of the Shadow Tree, and Imogen Temult, Exaltant Hope of the Red Storm. What do you see as your short and longterm goals and interests? 
LAURA: Well, if this is all right with you, I'd love to spend time in the coming months in the lake town. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: Helping those that come through the gate to acclimate a little bit, and as someone who's able to speak to them telepathically, because I know it's a big change for them, just be able to help them get settled and find places to go and feel like what we did in the big can make a difference in the little day-to-day as well. If that's all right. 
MARISHA: I love that. I think Laudna, with this new found life, both in the short and the longterm, just wants to live very simple life. She follows Imogen wherever she goes. Maybe we can have a little spring break at Nana Morri's. 
LAURA: Love it. 
MARISHA: Maybe she continues to learn some fire spells from Fearne. I do want to find that coin that Orym so flippantly threw down a hole. 
LIAM: Fuck that coin. (laughter) 
MARISHA: And-- 
LAURA: Little mini adventures. 
MARISHA: Mini adventures. 
LAURA: And then, I think, maybe in the Taloned Heights, we find a beautiful clearing in the woods.
MARISHA: Yes. 
LAURA: Somewhere with darkness and light, and we build a little cottage. Maybe Chet-- 
MARISHA: Could help us. 
LAURA: Can help because-- 
MARISHA: (gasps) I love that. 
LAURA: -- something so storybook and beautiful-- 
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: -- with a big kitchen. 
MATT: It's briefly frustrating because once word gets out that you have a Chetney Pock O'Pea household, people start making ridiculous offers on it and you eventually have to erase your name from the books. 
MARISHA: Please stop, we're not interested in selling. 
MATT: It's like, "Hey, I heard you guys were--" 
MARISHA: No. 
LAURA: Get the fuck out. 
MATT: "No, never mind, sorry." 
TRAVIS: Only four a year. 
MARISHA: Unsettling Presence, every real estate agent. 
LAURA: Like make it creepy, but also quaint. 
MARISHA: Yes. I craft curtains and make little figurines and dolls and make a friend for Pâté and the speckles of light. 
LAURA: And we have a stable. 
MARISHA: And we have a stable. Here's the thing. Horses don't like me, so maybe you could teach me. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: A little bit. 
LAURA: We'll find you a horse. 
MARISHA: Maybe I could have a donkey. 
LAURA: That is so perfect, and yes. (laughter) 
MARISHA: They're like horses, but a little creepy. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: And small. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: They can't breed. Did you know that? 
LAURA: Wait, what? (laughter) 
MARISHA: Isn't that true? Or is it ponies? 
ROBBIE: It's a mule, donkey and a horse, and a mule can't. 
LAURA: I thought you meant donkeys can't breed. I'm like, yes, they can, they have babies. 
MARISHA: They're all abominations. 
MATT: You only get one. 
MARISHA: Like me. 
MATT: Sorry. 
ROBBIE: Mule. 
MARISHA: I want a mule. 
TRAVIS: If you get a donkey wet, little balls sprout off their back. 
MATT: Yeah, yeah, there you go. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: I would love to purchase Flora. 
MARISHA: No, I don't. (laughter) 
LAURA: I want to purchase Flora from Mr. Faramore. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
MATT: Easy enough to do. Mr. Faramore is taken entirely back by what you've accomplished, and happily does so, so long as you sign off on this little memoir he wrote about all the things that he taught you. But upon probably a brief bit of intimidation and a terrifying "Back to the Future 1" esque, freaking out Mr. Faramore by Laudna, you manage to get Flora free of charge. 
LAURA: Oh. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
LAURA: Amazing. 
MARISHA: Anything for you, my love. (scary groans) (laughter) 
LAURA: (making out groans) 
TRAVIS: Jeez. (laughter) 
LAURA: She's so hot. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Your mother and father, estranged as they are, remain friends, but your mother also seems like she needs to find herself as well. She keeps in contact, but even she's on a walkabout. Every now and then, you check in with each other from wherever both of you are. Sometimes in dreams, you can still catch up. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Every now and then, she comes by to visit. She's definitely still trying to find her place in the world for a while. 
LAURA: Speaking of dreams, I love the little catch-ups I have with Dorian, and the adventures we have when he calls. But I visit, I visit our friends when they're sleeping. I find them in their dreams and we're still together. 
MATT: Every now and then, in the dark bit of night, you hear this distant cackle and a voice that whispers in your ear, (Morri 1) "They're enjoying your toys, legendary toymaker." 
TRAVIS: It's the greatest thing I could have ever (gasping) hope-- (gasping) [die clunking] 
TRAVIS: (sighs) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: And actually, I forget, I send a gift, an engagement gift to the blue-skinned one with the curly horns. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
TRAVIS: And when she gets it, it has a tag that says-- 
TALIESIN: Oh, you. 
TRAVIS: Congratulations. 
MARISHA: Oh! 
MATT: What?! (impressed noises) 
TRAVIS: Careful with the pretty things. Sometimes they hurt the most. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
MATT: That's so sweet. 
TALIESIN: That's so delightfully disturbing. 
LAURA: (Jester) I love it! Fjord, look! 
TRAVIS: (Fjord) That is such a strange gift to give. (laughter) 
LAURA: It's the jellyfish! 
TRAVIS: I know, but how did he even know? 
LAURA: I don't know. (laughter) 
LAURA: It's beautiful, though. 
TRAVIS: As long as you like it, that's all that matters. 
LAURA: (tongue waggling) Does it just go on forever? 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Somewhere in the wind you hear: (creepy old man laugh). (laughter) 
MATT: While we're on the topic-- (laughter) 
MATT: In the time shortly after the end of this age, what is the Mighty Nein up to? 
ROBBIE: (gasps) 
MARISHA: I mean, we'll make it quick because-- 
MATT: Yeah, we'll make it quick. 
MARISHA: This is a nine-hour game. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Well, I think with us, with our engagement present at hand, I think we really should try and it doesn't have to be a franchise on the moon, but I think they're going to need lots of help. We could spend some time there. 
LAURA: Yeah, I wasn't joking, I think we should do it. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, we could. 
LAURA: I want to go to the moon again. 
TRAVIS: If for no other reason than wedding location scouting. 
LAURA: Yeah, we should definitely see if there's a really cool venue on the moon. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, of course. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Indoor/outdoor, dance floor is very important. Plus, in the moon, I hear there are like caverns. 
LAURA: It's like with all the, yeah, with all the rocks and stuff, that was beautiful. 
TRAVIS: I think we could do that, and you know-- 
LAURA: Yeah! 
TRAVIS: Just keep an open mind. I'm very excited, by the way. 
LAURA: Me too. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LAURA: I love you. 
TRAVIS: I love you. Beau's going to be my best man. 
LAURA: (not fine) That's fine. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: She gave up so easily. 
LAURA: I am going to have, I think, a few maids of honor. 
TRAVIS: What? 
LAURA: Yeah, Veth for sure. Caleb. 
TRAVIS: Wait. 
LAURA: The Traveler, should he officiate? 
TRAVIS: No! No, no, I want this to go off without a hitch. There's no Traveler. 
MATT: (The Traveler) "I believe I already heard she said I'm officiating." 
TRAVIS: (heavy exhale) 
LAURA: Then in that case, Caduceus is my other maid of honor. 
TRAVIS: Are you going to have everyone in your wedding party? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: (laughs) 
LAURA: Good luck finding someone else. Yasha's also my maid of honor. 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Veth is on my side. (groans) 
LAURA: I already said Veth. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit! I get Vox Machina. (laughter) 
MARISHA: All of Vox Machina. 
ASHLEY: But I love that you guys are going to get married, everybody's on Jester's side. And it's just Beau. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Fuck 'em. (laughter) 
MARISHA: (Beau) Yeah! (growls) 
MATT: Beautiful, awesome. So I guess there is a wedding to come in the future. What is Vox Machina's immediate-- 
LIAM: (Caleb) Oh wait, I have a quick question because when Essek was, his disguise was dropped before the Bright Queen, Caleb immediately was thinking, does he need to wrap up his presence in Rexxentrum and vanish so that Essek-- I don't know how hard they are going to go for Essek, so in the week that comes, I think Caleb starts making bug out plans in case they get all of the Dynasty swarming on them, but if that doesn't happen-- 
MATT: Make an insight check for Caleb. 
LIAM: Oh, that's not going to be good at all. That is a 24. 
MATT: That's not bad. In the moment, while there was a Kryn soldier rush for the figure, you gather it wasn't with murderous intent, more than surprise and means to capture. The Bright Queen's reaction was of acknowledgement, but not necessarily extreme surprise. The best you can gather is he's definitely a person of interest, but wasn't the most immediate concern at the time. But still a person of interest. 
LIAM: Ja, so then Caleb continues to make exit plans for the both of them, and maybe that fades with a year or two, but it is ever present, and I think he settles into a role where he never takes on any government position, never wants that, but he shows up as an advisor in countries all over the world. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
LIAM: And he and Beauregard start to figure out or prepare for Ludinus popping up like a whac-a-mole. 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Send that fucker a message. 
MATT: You finally get the gumption one day, though you know it never works, to attempt a Scry spell on Ludinus Da'leth-- 
TRAVIS: (gasps) 
MATT: -- a man who-- 
MARISHA: Oh my god. 
TRAVIS: Doesn't work. 
MATT: -- classically has kept himself shielded. And you see him making tea in a beautiful, simple, little homestead. 
LIAM: No idea where or how or any details? 
MATT: You take in just enough vision from this to see beyond the open doorless entryway to the chamber he's in. Make a perception check for me, Caleb. 
LIAM: Can I use Orym? 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: No. (laughs) 
LIAM: That is a 22. 
MATT: 22. It looks at first you think just beyond the doorstep, it's almost like a roiling sea. But it's not sea. It's cloud. Cloud or mist. It's hard to tell. An endless expanse of mist or cloud. 
LIAM: Does it look like the Astral Sea to me? 
MATT: You see a blue sky. 
LIAM: Ah. 
MATT: But just mist and cloud. For a brief moment, you see something shift-- 
LAURA: (gasps) He's in the Shattered Teeth. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: Shattered Teeth. 
MATT: -- and reclaim. 
MARISHA: It's a good place to hide. 
LIAM: We start building plans on plans on plans on how to-- 
MARISHA: (Beau) I actually wanted to talk to you about this. Now that we know where he is, seems like he's not active. The Cerberus Assembly has calmed down a little bit. Yasha has been very, very patient with me and my work-life balance and my schedule. 
LIAM: I've been telling you for years. 
MARISHA: We've been talking about maybe adopting. It's never really been the right time. I think maybe I'll take the summer, go with her. Veth's been begging us to come out, do a summer at Wildemount Wildlings, be a camp counselor, and maybe see how I am with this kid thing. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: I'm a little torn because Veth seems like she's miserable with Luc. Luc drives her insane. But I don't know. But also you can tell she loves that kid so fucking much. 
LIAM: He's a teenager. 
MARISHA: Yeah. So, might take the summer off. Never taken a summer. 
LIAM: I think that will round you out well. 
MARISHA: Gods help me. Fuck, they can't, they're gone. Fuck. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Anyway. You know how to find me if anything pops up, but-- 
LIAM: All right. Well, go fuck around and find out. 
MARISHA: All right. Good luck. 
LIAM: You know how to find me. 
MARISHA: I punch him in the arm. (laughs) 
LIAM: I don't know why you did that as our goodbye. 
MARISHA: I'll see you at the wedding. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: Bye. 
LAURA: Also, maybe Essek can be my maid of honor. 
TRAVIS: No, Jester, no more! (laughter) 
MATT: What's up for Vox Machina immediately following these events? I know you said Grog had interest in-- 
TRAVIS: (Grog) Oh my god, I'm absolutely going to the moon. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I'm basically the strongest person on this little globe, so I got to conquer that sphere as well. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: So after a bit of discussions of appointment, eventually, you go through the proper channels and treks and emerge on the dusty red Ruidian surface, the winds blowing by gently. You're eventually shown to a few individuals to rendezvous with your point person, and a massive Reiloran figure approaches, broad shouldered, comes up. (Gaz) "Hey, I'm a Crimson officer of the new Krevirian Republic. Gaz Tomo. What's your name?" (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Gaz Tomo, I am the Grand Poobah de Doink of All of This and That, Grogory Strongjaw. 
MARISHA: Grogory! 
MATT: "I fucking love it." He takes your hand full on like-- (massive, strong clasp) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: (grunts) (laughter) (Gaz and Grog grunt strenuously) (laughter) 
SAM: Fade to black. (laughter) 
MATT: Yeah. (laughter continues) 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
MATT: Any other little points of denouement? 
SAM: In the immediate aftermath of everything, I catch Cerkonos looking a bit nervous. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: Scanlan goes up to him and says: Hey, hey, hey. 
ROBBIE: (Cerkonos) Yes. 
SAM: Hey, Coco. 
ROBBIE: Okay. Oh, I like it. (laughter) 
SAM: Listen, I know that in the last couple days, you've been, I don't know, I've taken you under my wing or my hoof, whatever, and-- 
ROBBIE: Lay it on me. There's no one I trust more than you. 
SAM: Well, I've been giving you advice and pumping you up and telling you jokes to use and compliments to say-- 
ROBBIE: Yes, I've logged all of your jokes in my brain. 
SAM: Yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: Last piece of advice when you go to talk to her. 
ROBBIE: Oh, okay. 
SAM: Forget all of it. Don't do anything that I told you to do. You don't need it. You're Coco. You're Cerkonos. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
SAM: You're the Fire Ashari diva. You're the best. 
ROBBIE: You're right. 
SAM: Just be yourself. Don't think about jokes and stupid compliments and shitty songs, just be yourself. Just say what you're passionate about. Are you really passionate about, I don't know, fire? 
ROBBIE: I love fire. 
SAM: Okay yeah, that's good. 
ROBBIE: Okay. 
SAM: Okay. You seem like you're super cut. Do you like working out? 
ROBBIE: I've been carnivore for 57 years. (laughter) 
SAM: Maybe she's-- She seems very wan and thin, so maybe she's got a diet plan and you guys could swap. Maybe she needs some protein. I don't know. Just talk about stuff that you're into. Don't try to be Scanlan because-- 
ROBBIE: What am I into? 
SAM: -- Scanlan's-- 
ROBBIE: Oh, well, I'm into meat. 
SAM: I don't know, I'm not-- 
ROBBIE: I am into fire. I am into Scanman. You will never get me to not be a Scanman fan. But I think I understand what you mean. Be my best self! Is she here? (laughter) 
LAURA: "Is she here?" 
MATT: We'll say you're in Vasselheim and you know that she's over by the Raven's Crest Temple. 
SAM: Go to her. Go to her. 
ROBBIE: I'm going to kiss you on the forehead. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: And I just run-- 
MATT: (determined beeline) 
ROBBIE: Bounding full speed. (laughter) 
MATT: You rush up to the Raven's Crest Temple. The obsidian doors await you there. 
ROBBIE: Will you come with me? (laughter) 
SAM: Jesus! 
LIAM: She presses a hand over your mouth. (Lieve'tel) You're overthinking it. Just bring the heat. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Scanman! (laughter) 
MATT: Yeah, the doors just (slam shut) close on the eyrie. 
LAURA: You shout Scanlan's name as you're having sex with-- (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Absolutely. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, do we want to-- We can handle Whitestone I suppose if that's where-- 
LAURA: (Vex) Sure. 
MATT: Just in the short term for-- 
LAURA: Yes. 
TALIESIN: (Percy) Well, the short term of course is suddenly the gods are gone. That puts us in both a unique advantage and also possibly some new enemies. I think it's time to slowly prepare the children for taking over some of our roles. 
LAURA: Yes, of course. I think Whitestone becomes even more well off. With magic becoming what it is, I think residuum becomes even more useful, and therefore... 
TALIESIN: Of course, the Ruidian refugees bring with them their technology. We happily share it and we become a little more powerful, a little more safe. 
LAURA: Yes, yes, yes. 
TALIESIN: I talk to you as I also start preparing Gwendolyn, our child, for not just a spy network, but we also want to find the gods first. 
MARISHA: (Keyleth) Oh. Why? Percy? 
TALIESIN: I'd like to know-- I'd like to know where they are, what they're thinking. If they're not a problem, then they're not a problem. But if something starts, it would be good to know from what direction it's starting from. 
MARISHA: Percival. 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
MARISHA: I will support you no matter what. But if you will hear me, perhaps this one is best left alone. Perhaps this is for the younger generation to discover without our influence. 
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm not going to be doing this. This work is for my children. I am getting old. 
MARISHA: Why don't you let Gwendolyn decide that? 
TALIESIN: Yes, retirement is coming very quickly. 
MARISHA: You know she always has a home with us, but-- 
TALIESIN: I hope that you will take care of her, and I know you will also take care of her mother. 
MARISHA: Of course. Why are you speaking like this? You're not that old. (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Oh, it's starting to-- You do what we do for long enough... (laughter) 
TRAVIS: A lot of life in those years. 
TALIESIN: It's been quite a life, and it's not been a life without stress and hardship and damage. 
MARISHA: I know. 
TRAVIS: Demonic deals. 
TALIESIN: And-- 
TRAVIS: And, and. 
TALIESIN: There's only so much of a life. 
LAURA: I think-- 
TALIESIN: I tend to enjoy it. 
LAURA: -- as Percival gets older, we step away from our duties and we spend time together in our several vacation homes around Exandria. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
MATT and MARISHA: (laugh) 
TALIESIN: Do we want a cottage on Ruidus as well? 
LAURA: Obviously. 
TALIESIN: With a good view? 
LAURA: Yes. 
TALIESIN: Yes, of course. 
LIAM: Do you have a Doomseed Brabies painting in your house? 
LAURA: Yes, we do. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
SAM and MATT: (laugh) 
LAURA: We have a Doomseed and a Lavorre. 
MARISHA: I imagine there comes a day where Keyleth seeps into the earth, connects with the deepest roots of all of the primordial trees. Her vision scattering across all of Exandria as she surfs through the roots of all of the existence that we've ever known. One day, she hears the cry of a newborn baby and knows that something's different. She does not tell Percival. 
MATT: (chuckles) 
MARISHA: She keeps it to herself. 
TRAVIS: (chuckles) 
MATT: I love it. I love it. Pike? 
ASHLEY: I think in the aftermath for Pike, being a cleric of the Everlight, there is a huge sense of loss, and grieving, and uncertainty now and grieving, and uncertainty now at her age of what to do with her life, of always trying to keep the path and now what? I think she works to clean the temples, just dusting, hoping that maybe one day... I don't know. 
MATT: It takes about 15 years before an acolyte raps on your door. "Pike Trickfoot?" 
ASHLEY: Yes? 
MATT: "We think we found her." 
ASHLEY: Where? 
MATT: "Come with me." 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: They take your hand and pull you into an adventure to possibly be one of those to receive-- 
LAURA: (gasps) Oh my god! 
MATT: -- the Everlight. 
ASHLEY: Oh! Now I'm going to cry! 
MATT: But indeed, thus-- 
SAM: Oh wait. 
MATT: Oh right. Oh yeah, Scanlan. 
SAM: Yes, in addition to hooking up Cerkonos. 
MATT: Yes. 
ROBBIE: Thanks, bro. 
MATT: I figured that was all you wanted. (laughter) 
MARISHA: That's his legacy. 
SAM: I think knowing what Pike's path is, I think he will visit her soon after the events of this campaign. Not 15 years later, but soon after, and gallop over. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Still a-- 
TRAVIS: You're still a centaur. 
MARISHA: -- centaur. 
SAM: I'm a centaur. (laughter) 
SAM: And-- 
LAURA: (laughing) Stupid. (chuckling) 
SAM: -- and just express that I know that we had our time together, and now we had our time apart, and you have duties here, obviously with the gods being gone. You have to figure out who needs guidance and be that for them, I guess. 
ASHLEY: I don't have duties here. 
SAM: Well, I mean. 
ASHLEY: What do I--? 
SAM: What if someone needs to pray and there's no god to pray to, they got to come pray to you, I guess, or--? 
ASHLEY: No! I'm not going to have anybody pray to me. What are you, crazy? (laughter) 
SAM: Well, I don't-- 
ASHLEY: (sighs) What are you going to go do? 
SAM: Well, I want to have-- I guess I still want to have, you know, some adventures. It feels like-- It feels like time is sort of like, it's not our friend. Time's an asshole. Right? It keeps fucking with us. When I first met you, I was at a time when I was super horny and you were at a time when you were much more mature and cool. And then I-- Then later, I was trying to be a dad and you were trying to-- You were so sweet to me, and then we got married. It was great! And that was great! Then we had our time doing that and it kept moving. That's the thing, it feels like time just keeps moving even when sometimes you just want to just stop for a second, you know? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
SAM: Like if you're having fun with a group of friends and you just want it to last forever. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
SAM: And I think the best time that I ever had was with you. And I do want to go on adventures and have more of a life together, but I tried, and it's not as good without you. So if you don't have duties, or at least you can blow them off for a little while, I've got a really strong back. I could carry you off to I some more adventures before we hang it up. 
ASHLEY: (sighs) There's such a huge part of me that wants to say no. But godsdamn it, I still love you. I love hanging out with you. We have the best time. 
SAM: We don't have to be married again. 
ASHLEY: No, we don't. We don't. 
SAM: Just call pals. 
ASHLEY: Shut the fuck up. 
SAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to give it six months. 
SAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Let's go see some stuff. I've always kind of been into centaurs. I'm going to put it out there. When you came up and I was like: This is really hard for me. 
SAM: Well, it's the best of both worlds. 
ASHLEY: It's the best of both worlds. I'm going to hop on his back. 
MARISHA: What are those two worlds? (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Don't think too hard about it. 
TRAVIS: Catastrophic. 
SAM: Don't ask! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Listen, let's do it. Let's just travel. Let's just get our minds off of things and have a good time. 
SAM: No labels or anything? 
ASHLEY: No labels. 
SAM: Do you want to be a centaur, too? 
TRAVIS: (wheezes) 
ASHLEY: Yeah. (wheezing laughter) 
TALIESIN: There we go. 
SAM: All right. (laughter) 
SAM: I cast 9th-level True Polymorph. 
TALIESIN: Woo hoo! (laughter) 
TALIESIN: There's no better way to end this. 
MARISHA: This is the best game in the world. 
SAM: And I make Pike a centaur. 
LIAM: The painting has become real. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I look around at my-- 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
ASHLEY: -- big beautiful ass and extra legs. Hyah! 
SAM: Hyah! (laughter) 
SAM: As we ride off into the distance, I sing a song. I play a song as we ride off into the distance. 
MATT: I love it. 
SAM: I play ♪ Pike, I was born ♪ a rambling Scan ♪ (laughter) 
SAM: ♪ I got myself the best girl in the land ♪ ♪ But now I'm in love ♪ ♪ And it's better ♪ than I planned ♪ ♪ So I will be ♪ a rambling Scan ♪ (awwing and laughter) 
ROBBIE: Oh man. 
MATT: With that, ends what is called the Era of Reclamation. Following the Calamity until now, that era comes to a close. The end of an age of recovery and discovery. Starting this new age with a time of uncertainty, a time of change, but a time of excitement and possibility. Hm. But, naught but a week from the end of that era, a knock comes to your door, Keyleth. 
MARISHA: My heart is pounding. I open the door. 
MATT: Without expectation you see there standing before you with a little more flush and life to his cheeks, the Champion of the Matron, Vax'ildan. 
LIAM: (Vax) Hi. 
MARISHA: (exhales) Hi. I've been waiting for you. I didn't know what happened. I thought you might be gone forever. 
LIAM: I can't explain it. It's not a fate I ever could see. Honestly, I don't think she could either. She is out there somewhere waiting to be found. It is still my duty to carry out her will. But that duty now brings me home. I am home. 
MARISHA: Forever? Are you going to leave again? 
LIAM: Nothing could ever make me leave again. 
MARISHA: So much has happened. 
LIAM: I know. 
MARISHA: I'm a different person now, Vax. Come inside. 
LIAM: He moves in wordlessly. I loved you fiercely in life and forgive me, but I loved you fiercely beyond it as well. And I know how hard that was. I have no expectations. But, if you would, could we start over? 
MARISHA: I have been lying in wait in a perpetual stasis. It's felt like falling and never knowing when the ground will come. I think I've been waiting for my devilish rogue with wings to catch me again. I would love, I would love to start over. 
LIAM: Begin again. 
MARISHA: But it will have to be a beginning, if that's okay with you. 
LIAM: Every good story needs a start. 
MARISHA: I've missed you so much. 
LIAM: I was never that far away. 
MARISHA: I know. That's part of what always made it so hard. Maybe we could go on a date. 
LIAM: I would like that very much. 
MARISHA: My name's Keyleth, and you're the love of my life. 
LIAM: If you will have me, I am yours, Keyleth of the Air Ashari. 
MARISHA: Would you like a glass of wine? (quiet chuckling) 
LIAM: My first glass of wine in a very long time. I can't think of a better person to share it with than you. 
MARISHA: I just kiss him. 
MATT: Through life's responsibilities as a leader of your people and guide of the future of Exandria in this new uncertain future, and you as the Champion of the Matron, now one of many, searching for her return to guide her and all of your interests into this new era. Every now and then your champion comes to visit. 
MARISHA: I can work with that. 
MATT: And that's where we'll leave it. That concludes our campaign. 
ROBBIE: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh. 
MARISHA: I love you, sweet husband. (laughter) 
MATT: I love you, guys. 
LAURA: Love you, Matt. 
ROBBIE: Love you, too. 
ASHLEY: We love you, Matt. 
TRAVIS: Thanks for the good story, Matt. 
MATT: I look forward to the next one. 
TALIESIN: One more before we have to go to sleep. Just one more story. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Just like five more minutes. 
TALIESIN: Five more minutes. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
MATT: Thank you for coming along, friends. 
LIAM: Good night, Bells Hells. 
LAURA: Oh! Good night, Mighty Nein. 
TALIESIN: Good night. 
MARISHA: Good night, Vox Machina. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Goodnight, moon. 
SAM: (Taryon) I'm Taryon Darrington! (laughter) 
MATT: (sighs) Thank you all for hanging in for a giant-sized version. 
MARISHA: I think this is a record. 
LAURA and LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: Might be. Didn't intend to it be, but isn't that how it works out? 
SAM: And our guests. 
MATT: Yes. Massive thank you to all the wonderful guests that came to be a part of this campaign and this finale. Thank you all so much for coming along with us on this story. It means a lot. Just know that we love you very much, and is it Thursday yet? Good night.

Cooldown[]
TRAVIS: Three campaigns in the books.
MATT: Fuck.
ASHLEY: Matthew Mercer.
MATT: You guys. I'm just fumbling through this shit.
TRAVIS: Ten years in the blink of an eye.
LAURA: God, 10 years.
MATT: 10 fucking years.
LAURA: 10 years of filming. Longer playing.
TALIESIN: Longer playing.
MATT: Yeah. I've always wanted to do that. I've always wanted to roll three campaigns together like that. I don't know if I'll ever get to do that again. So I'm happy we got a chance to do that.
TALIESIN: I can roll till 60.
TRAVIS: That was pretty, you guys. That was pretty.
LAURA: Oh, Bells Hells.
MARISHA: There's our Bells Hells logo.
LAURA: Does Chetney just live forever?
ASHLEY: Let's go get tattoos, you guys.
TALIESIN: Right now. Right fucking now.
ASHLEY: The Mighty Nein, fool. Come on, dude, let's go! You got to design it!
LAURA: Come on, broh.
TRAVIS: I thought about having him fall asleep in an old armchair. But he made it this far. 
LIAM: Man, I love the idea of Grog roaming the moon so much!
ROBBIE: Moon Grog!
TRAVIS: Honestly, Gaz and Grog are fucking bonkers, dude.
ROBBIE: You're going to get in so much trouble, dude.
TALIESIN: (passing champagne glasses) Oh, we're just going? All the way around.
SAM: Is the gravity less up there? I've forgotten now.
MATT: It's comparable.
LAURA: What, on the moon?
TRAVIS: (as Grog) Don't worry, I bring my own gravity.
MARISHA: Don't lose your passport, Grog.
TALIESIN: Matt needs one, still.
ASHLEY: Wait, we're missing two.
MATT: Am I opening this?
ASHLEY: I mean, Matt could just open a bottle. I am holding back--
MARISHA: I know.
ASHLEY: --just a deep sob.
TRAVIS: Easy on your back.
MATT: I'm good.
TRAVIS: We old people.
MARISHA: I know. The audience has watched us age over 10 years.
SAM: Speak for yourself.
ROBBIE: You guys look great.
SAM: I'm still young and virile.
ASHLEY: Age, growth...
TALIESIN: Fuck all of y'all.
ASHLEY: Grow in all different directions.
SAM: You could just give us the bottle.
ROBBIE: You've done all the work already. You don't have to do more work.
MATT: I'm sorry, I'm used to it! I'm a people pleaser! We talked about this.
LIAM: Robbie, with the completion of campaigns, how do you feel?
ROBBIE: What!?
SAM: Should I have been evil? Should I have gone evil? Maybe I should have just said yes to Asmodeus.
LIAM: Either way. The time, I was like-- I can't decide what I like more.
SAM: I don't know either!
LAURA: But I love that you're with the Traveler now.
TALIESIN: You've got so much time to seesaw back and forth and waffle on it, though. There's going to be so many gods vying for your--
LAURA: Oh, Matt still needs some too.
MATT: I pour other people's before I pour myself.
LAURA: No, that's so much.
MATT: That's how you put masks on. No, that's the opposite of what you're supposed to do.
SAM: I was worried that if I went evil, I'd have to spend the rest of the night at the table with you all hating me.
MATT: We're doing that anyway.
LIAM: That would have been awesome, too. In the moment--
LAURA: Yeah, your choices suck, Sam.
SAM: Let's re-shoot. Let's go back.
TALIESIN: Ashton would have still invited you along even if you'd gone evil. It would have been fine. Still on board.
LAURA: (toasting) To 10 years.
TRAVIS: 10 years, 3 campaigns, a specific number of characters that I don't know.
SAM: And don't forget that fourth campaign that we totally shot, edited, and threw in the trash. (general agreement)
TALIESIN: To so many fucking ads from Sam Goddamn Riegel. Just so many ads, you insane man!
SAM: Mm-hm, lots of ads.
MATT: To this incredible crew, to all the amazing talented people that put this together, make it work, make it pretty, everybody who works behind the scenes to help us not go crazy to play make believe. I'm so glad y'all came and rolled dice in our dingy apartment 12 years ago.
LIAM: To ten years. 
LAURA: To folding tables and birds pooping on our head.
LIAM: 10 years of undeniable adventure in every sense of that word.
MATT: And to you, to the community, to all the Critters that have been with us on this journey and are here with us tonight.
ALL: Cheers.
MATT: Love you guys.
MOST: Minus eyes.
LAURA: You didn't look at me, Sam.
TRAVIS: You didn't look at me, Laura!
LAURA: I didn't get Marisha or Robbie, so it's fine.
TALIESIN: I always look at them, though.
TRAVIS: Oh, that stuff is disgusting.
ROBBIE: That's great apple cider, right?
LAURA: That's a good apple cider.
MARISHA: We should have our guests come--
MATT: Yes, we should! Come sit with us!
ROBBIE: Is anybody still here?
MARISHA: I think Erica had to leave, but-- (guests arrive, general greetings)
AABRIA: How are you doing?
MATT: I'm going to be processing this for a while, I think, so if I'm a little dark and morose at the moment it's all because this is a lot. Not dark. Dark and morose is a bad way to put it.
AABRIA: No, you're perfect. You're absolutely perfect. Look at these people.
MATT: I know.
AABRIA: Look at what you pulled together.
MATT: This is all crazy.
AABRIA: It's all crazy.
MATT: None of this makes sense.
AABRIA: Not even a little bit.
ASHLEY: I'm going to take some of this home. I'm going to take the wolf, I'm going to leave the family and the feet.
SAM: I don't even remember what that was for.
MARISHA: This is still content.
CHRISTIAN: I have to get home to my fur babies, so I just want to say cheers, cheers, cheers! Cheers to all of you.
SAM: Love you, Christian.
CHRISTIAN: I love you all. Have a lovely night. And good night to everyone at home.
MARISHA: Oh, are you out, Christian?
CHRISTIAN: Gotta get home to the babies. Goodnight, everybody!
MATT: Thank you so much, Christian!
AABRIA and ASHLEY: Love you, FRIDA!
LAURA: Can we talk about how good Christian smells?
ASHLEY: He smells so good.
AABRIA: He does smell really good.
MARISHA: He's always so fly and so well dressed.
CHRISTIAN: Tom Ford Café Rose!
AABRIA: My boy FRIDA does not gatekeep!
AIMEE: It's a $99 bottle of perfume.
MATT: Well played, sir, well played.
MARISHA: I also have to shout out Emily Axford, who was supposed to be here, but we had to stop and fires happened and she wasn't able to make today, but was supposed to be here. So much love to Emily.
MATT: Love you, Emily.
SAM: And other guests?
LAURA: All of our guests from Campaign One through Campaign Three.
ASHLEY: I forgot about this little book. And it's all drawings of dicks that Laura and I drew. I wonder if we should auction this off for CRF or something.
MATT: Honestly, I'm down for that idea.
ASHLEY: Because it's just such a work of art.
LAURA: I mean, it's a work of art. So many beautiful dicks.
AABRIA: It's a little dick-tionary.
ROBBIE: This is my favorite first note from the session. It just says, "Horse girl?"
ASHLEY: That's a good idea. Look at your first note.
LIAM: But now that's about Pike.
AABRIA: I need you to know I have a headache from trying not to lose my mind scream-laughing at Pike turning into a centaur. I've never worked harder in my life to be like, "Shut the fuck up."
TRAVIS: Do you want to be a centaur?
AIMEE: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Well, no, because with improv, when I told you to shut the fuck up, I'm like, "You're not supposed to do that in improv." So when you were like, "You want to be a centaur?" I was like, "Oh, shit. Yes."
MARISHA: To be fair, we're not playing freeze tag.
LIAM: It's also a spell that can be cast every day. So if you want to be a bird the next day you can.
LAURA: 15 years from now when the fucking Matron comes and Pike's on a mission, she's a centaur! To bring the Matron back.
ASHLEY: We're going to stay centaurs.
LAURA: I mean, to bring the Everlight back.
MATT: The Everlight's like, "Interesting."
ASHLEY: This was my choice while you were gone!
MARISHA: One of my first throwaway notes from when we were in Jrusar was, "You can ride big goats here!"
SAM: We never really did them.
ASHLEY: Wait, what were their names? We gave them all names.
SAM: I don't have my notes from early in the campaign, but I did write down a bunch of song ideas for Scanlan: "Neigh-thing compares to you", "Don't trot till you get enough", "Winnie-the-Boo", "I just called to Neigh I love you", "Neigh-O Misay Neigh-O", "Wild me's couldn't drag you away". Terrible.
LAURA: "Wild Horses" is on Imogen's playlist.
SAM: Oh, really?
ROBBIE: Copious, just wrote, "RIP Bert". Deeply impactful.
TALIESIN: I found all of my Campaign One notes because that was one of the things I pulled out of my house and put in a storage unit this week.
LAURA: I found my original Vex player sheet. My character sheet. When we were cleaning the other day.
TRAVIS: Yeah, you better still have that.
LAURA: Yeah, and my Trinket that I still have on it.
TRAVIS: We got the original Bag of Holding with body parts and stuff. Dork the Ox.
TALIESIN: We were talking because I still have our first Winter's Crest gifts from the very first, when we had our Christmas party at your house.
LAURA: Pine cones for earrings.
ASHLEY: And I almost took a picture again this year because I've unpacked them every year when I put them out for the holidays, and I almost texted you a picture of the Pike-- what Grog got Pike.
TRAVIS: But you didn't because you're heartless.
ASHLEY: I always put them on my mantel.
LIAM: I have such fond memories of the dining room table in that house.
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Oh, me too.
MARISHA: Yeah, and you guys--
LIAM: Too bad it was riddled with ghosts.
LAURA: So many ghosts.
TRAVIS: Little wooden ox.
MARISHA: Little ox that we still have. We have it on our tchotchkes shelf. You were handing out wooden toys even at the home game. 
TRAVIS: That's the long game, you guys. Just look under the back left leg for a couple of additional.
LAURA: I got that at an antique mall and I was like, "Yes."
MATT: That would terrify me.
LAURA: Yeah, that was a Chetney Pock O'Pea original. 
TRAVIS: Has CPOP.
MARISHA: Dude, I would freak the fuck out if I went home and was like: (screams)
LAURA: C-POP!
AABRIA: I need this to happen so badly.
SAM: It would be amazing if when they scyed on Ludinus or whatever and he was just sitting there, he was just sort of palming a Pock O'Pea egg.
AABRIA: He has the last one. 
ASHLEY: I will find it.
MATT: You missed two of them.
LAURA: Is there five or are there six? Because I thought you had one up your butt all the time.
ASHLEY: Waylon has one that I tried to steal.
SAM: Scalebearer Waylon.
ASHLEY: And then I thought you said that one of them is at the Unseelie Court, which you could have lied about.
SAM: That's what he calls his asshole.
MARISHA: I just got to know: Does Deanna ever fuck Braius?
AABRIA: Yeah, every lifetime. I'll find you.
MARISHA: Every lifetime! 
AABRIA: But I don't think it's good. I don't think she's giving her best. That's not on Braius. Deanna's not focused.
LAURA: If you come to Nicodranas, you can hit up Braius and Bluud at the same time.
LIAM: If you come to Nicodranas, you can come in Nicodranas.
AABRIA: She teleports.
MATT: Girl, ain't no maze you're not getting out of.
ASHLEY: I see when I lost my portable hole privileges.
AABRIA: Perfect segue.
ASHLEY: I started, I was like, "I'm going to take care of the portable hole. I'm going to make the list." And I only wrote down two things.
LAURA: We were like, "What do we have in there?"
ASHLEY: Changing bust and dynamite. And I was like, "I'm not going to keep track anymore. I'm not the person to do this."
TALIESIN: I had all that Italian food from the one episode where I was sick.
LAURA: Just sitting there rotting?
TALIESIN: Well, a lot of it was dried goods or canned. So it's okay.
MATT: I don't know. I like the idea that you guys were carrying around a magical compost heap.
TALIESIN: It's real bad in there now. It's definitely gotten--
MATT: It's real nasty.
LAURA: Are the dead bodies still in there?
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah. Well, not all of them but quite a few.
AIMEE: When you split up, that was a long time.
MATT: Oh, it's real bad in there.
TALIESIN: There's a bunch of stuff that we lost during the explosion with FCG, because the hole opened and some stuff flew out, but we never really went down on what actually got lost.
MATT: Oh, that's right. That was some "Troma" movie stuff that came flying out of there.
SAM: Can Opal ever get this Crown off her head?
AIMEE: If anyone can do it, Fearne can do it.
ASHLEY: It's true.
AIMEE: Aabria backstage was like, "It was never meant to stay on the whole fucking time."
AABRIA: There's nothing better than being like, "There's not a trick to it."
MATT: There is now.
AABRIA: Just pull. Yeah.
TALIESIN: Also, there's a perfect nemesis for your character because we also have an NPC who has a golden dick stuck to her hand, that she can't remove.
LIAM: You just have to unbutton the chin strap.
LAURA: If it has a chin strap, that would be amazing.
ASHLEY: Can we just talk about Aimee's nails for a second? She made them!
SAM: What does that mean?
AIMEE: Can you tell I'm between jobs because I made these. I got fake piercings on Temu and then I just built them.
TALIESIN: Are you gluing them to press on?
AIMEE: Yeah, they're Gellex I painted.
ASHLEY: Get a close up shot.
SAM: For the people. Actually, wait, let me get a horizontal.
ASHLEY: Like, are you kidding me with these? 
SAM: Because this is actually going to be on-stream.
TALIESIN: Those are like those crazy-ass jeweled and chained ones when you were on--
AIMEE: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Those haunt my nightmares, they're so cool. They're so fucking cool.
AIMEE: Thank you.
AABRIA: Can we just see a little bit of the top?
AIMEE: Yeah, I mean, look at this top.
AABRIA: It's so cool!
AIMEE: I think I'm allergic to it. It's not wet. It's made from resin or something.
AABRIA: We've been hosing you down backstage every 20 minutes.
LAURA: Does your hair stick to it, Aimee?
AIMEE: I'm just saying, you can all get some made.
LAURA: Does your hair stick to it?
AIMEE: Oh, yah.
LIAM: Your fashion game has been strong since the very first ExU game.
AIMEE: Thank you. I took it as an opportunity to show off my skills.
AABRIA: What the fuck?
TALIESIN: (reading Sam's giant flask) "What do you call 60 minotaurs?" "An hourtaur".
MATT: I hate this.
AABRIA: Was that worth it, Sam?
TALIESIN: I'm glad you saved the worst for last.
SAM: This one? (holds up his giant tankard) I'm a "One trick pony" because I'm a horse.
MATT: Does that have any liquid in it?
SAM: No.
TALIESIN: Thank god, no.
SAM: They won't let me. I've tried to put the liquid in it and the crew won't let me.
MATT: They're a good crew. They're looking out for you.
TALIESIN: You'd be dead by now.
LAURA: It will kill you.
MATT: We're pretty sure that's how he got cancer.
MARISHA: Matt, how do you feel overall?
MATT: Fine! I mean, emotionally spent in the best way.
TRAVIS: Especially after the last week.
MATT: Yeah. This was a catharsis I didn't think I was preparing for. I don't know. I'm just grateful. I love you guys. I'm so glad we get to do this weird shit together, and the fact that we've been doing it this long and we still get to... Man, I was trying so hard not to cry at the end. Goddamn it.
TRAVIS: Bitch.
AABRIA: You were so good. You were so brave!
LAURA: Weak!
AABRIA: I was losing my goddamn mind back there.
MATT: That's what I'm thinking.
SAM: (to Travis, who is rolling dice) Still trying to kill Chetney?
TRAVIS: Just want one.
AABRIA: I wanted it for you so badly.
MARISHA: I did too.
AABRIA: God, I was like, it's god.
ROBBIE: I take you on adventures. Can I be responsible for your death?
TRAVIS: Yes, please.
MARISHA: What if it happens?
ALL: (groaning--it didn't)
AABRIA: Now I want to try.
ASHLEY: Didn't it happen one time?
TALIESIN: It got really close.
ROBBIE: When he was Grog.
TALIESIN: He got real close once.
ASHLEY: Oh, that's right though.
LAURA: Everybody should get a shot at killing Chetney.
MATT: You can't let the DMs touch.
AABRIA: These are going to be fucked forever. I'm so sorry.
LIAM: It's my only disappointment for the campaign, is that Chetney never--
AABRIA: Fuck!
LAURA: Can we one-by-one try to kill Chetney?
ROBBIE: Everybody gets a chance to kill Chetney.
MARISHA: It was close. You got close.
LAURA: Do we have to use his dice?
MARISHA: Let me see.
TRAVIS: Whoever kills Chetney, I was fantasizing about you in my sleep when I die.
AABRIA: Yes!
MARISHA: I also rolled-- I rolled the same as you! 20!
TALIESIN: I'm into it, I'm into it.
ROBBIE: You got to do one, Opal.
AABRIA: So he had a little arrhythmia thinking about Deanna and Laudna.
LIAM: Lining up.
LAURA: He's been doing three.
MARISHA: He's been doing both of them to see.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to do both. 
TRAVIS: You get advantage.
LAURA: Aw! But that's--
ROBBIE: Come on, Opal, do it!
TRAVIS: Stubborn as fuck, man. 
TALIESIN: All right, who's next?
MARISHA: 69!
ALL: Nice!
MATT: I don't want that responsibility.
ROBBIE: That's a wet t-shirt roll.
MATT: I'm going to let somebody else take it.
MARISHA: Oh, close.
SAM: Close, but no cigar.
ASHLEY: Oh my god, I'm sorry.
AIMEE: He's unkillable.
TRAVIS: Can't die.
ROBBIE: Kill you father.
AABRIA: He can't die.
MATT: There's no way out. 
AABRIA: Death is not an escape, not for you.
MATT: Not with that fey deal.
LIAM: This is Critical Role, we kill old people.
TALIESIN: Travis, I need eye contact. You like that? Uh, uh, no! Almost!
MARISHA: It was close.
LAURA: I love you.
ASHLEY: Still not it.
MATT: Hey, Travis. You still got that fey deal.
TRAVIS: I know.
ROBBIE: He's 400 years old, it's advantage.
LAURA: What?
TRAVIS: A fey deal.
LAURA: You have to roll for him.
MATT: I'm not going to roll.
LAURA: You have to.
MATT: I have to?
LAURA: You're part of this group.
ASHLEY: Dang it.
MARISHA: Close, though.
AABRIA: Finish him, Matt!
ALL: (cheering) (chanting) Kill! Kill! Kill!
MATT: Nope! (groaning) True GM luck. That's how it works.
AABRIA: Rolling a natural 20, I was like, "This is the only one I'm going to roll in this.
LIAM: He's as hard as the wood he works with!
AIMEE: 100 and something episodes, never got close, never once?
TRAVIS: I rolled it as Grog.
MARISHA: Yeah, he's gotten close.
TRAVIS: But I wasn't Chetney.
MATT: Yeah, you were so disappointed.
TRAVIS: I know.
MARISHA: Because I always looked.
AABRIA: You can see it on your face. You're like, "(sighs) Cursed to continue."
SAM: This was the first game I ever got to play with Aimee, as a co-player.
AIMEE: Aw, yeah. 
MATT: That's true.
SAM: It was great.
TRAVIS: It was really bad.
SAM: You're pretty good.
AIMEE: I'm pretty good!
AABRIA: I have notes.
AIMEE: If it wasn't for Sam, I would have never met any of you guys.
SAM: That's true.
MATT: That's true. We're so sorry.
LAURA: Oh my god.
AABRIA: Sam, thank you for introducing me to one of my favorite people in the entire world.
MARISHA: You feel like, well, it's kind of the same for us. Like same for you, though. It feels like you've always been with us. 
SAM: Not Robbie, though.
AABRIA: No, not Robbie.
SAM: Robbie feels new every time.
ROBBIE: I've been trying to leave for years.
TALIESIN: You'll find your car keys one day.
AABRIA: "They keep moving the door!"
MARISHA: It's weird because, yeah, the ExU crew started three years ago? Four years ago? 
MATT: Four years ago.
ASHLEY: Yes, April 2021.
AABRIA: It's almost to the day. 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Wow.
ASHLEY: Really?
MATT: Yeah, that's right, because it was like early February when we started filming.
AABRIA: Yeah.
LIAM: We got to watch Aimee--
MATT: We started doing the tests and stuff.
LIAM: --and Robbie from like a million miles away, at their private tables.
ASHLEY: That's right, because we were still in lockdown.
LIAM: First time ever. Yeah, still the lockdown times.
LAURA: Isolation tables.
ROBBIE: That's right!
MATT: Yeah, we were still coming off the COVID setup.
MARISHA: It was the last thing, because we were building this set, and you guys were filming.
AIMEE: And even with the isol, I remember I took a picture not knowing anything about the fandom or anything, and I took a photo of a play and the thing was in the background. Within 10 minutes.
MARISHA: Oh, that's right.
AIMEE: One of the producers--
ASHLEY: Oh, I remember that. 
AIMEE: "You're going to have to take that down."
ALL: (laughter)
AIMEE: I was like, "Oh, shit."
ROBBIE: They know the background!
AIMEE: They know the background.
ROBBIE: They can smell the dice from Reddit.
TALIESIN: And it was just a smidge.
AIMEE: Just like a little sliver of that, whatever marbling effect was behind the thing.
MATT: They knew exactly, immediately.
LAURA: Our high school portrait backgrounds?
MATT: Yeah.
AABRIA: Those were wonderful.
ASHLEY: Wait, did people pick up on it?
TALIESIN and AABRIA: Immediately.
AABRIA: Instantaneously.
MARISHA: The first comment was like, "You're going to be on Critical Role?"
AIMEE: Yeah, immediately.
ROBBIE: I got misty that first day back when we were all at the same table. I just got enough taste of it to be a part, and I was like, "Man, this would feel good shoulder to shoulder." Yeah, yeah, that first day back was pretty sweet.
SAM: Then you had to spend six months literally crammed into--
ROBBIE: Wanting to end it all. Just shoulder to shoulder. That's good shit. You survived cancer!
SAM: I did!
ROBBIE: Yes, baby!
AIMEE: Yeah, baby!
ASHLEY: That's right! God. 
ROBBIE: That's the best.
ASHLEY: You had cancer in between all his, that's nuts!
SAM: What a ride.
MARISHA: So much has happened.
ROBBIE: That's unbelievable.
ASHLEY: So much has happened.
SAM: Yeah, a lot has happened.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LIAM: 2020.
SAM: You guys are my best friends.
ROBBIE: Aww.
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LAURA: Yeah.
AABRIA: It sounded sarcastic, but I do believe it.
MATT: Everything he says does.
TALIESIN: Honestly, would we have time to know anyone else, is really my question. Not that I don't love you. I love you all. I'm just putting that out there.
AABRIA: That's so real! 
MARISHA: Best friends.
AABRIA: I feel crazy! That hit too hard.
ROBBIE: Forcecage friendship. "Fuck, I can't get out!"
LAURA: I love you guys. (sobs)
MATT: You reach a certain age where you're like--
TALIESIN: You are locked in here with me.
ROBBIE: Square feet, it feels about right.
AABRIA: Every new person is a liability.
MATT: Kind of, yeah.
AABRIA: No new friends.
MATT: No new friends 2025.
AABRIA: Hell yeah.
LIAM: "Damn it, she's still doing that thing."
MARISHA: Well, I think I need to sleep for eight years.
MATT: Yeah, same.
TALIESIN: We have shit happening tomorrow?
MARISHA: For the next decade.
TALIESIN: No, tomorrow's not a real day.
AABRIA: Y'all cried like a bunch. You really could have locked it up.
LAURA: Tomorrow is not a real day.
TRAVIS: You get a day off when you finish a campaign.
MARISHA: One day. Do we?
AABRIA: It's been an honor and joy.
LIAM: What's up?
TALIESIN: I totally forgot. I'm getting older in 48 hours. 
LIAM: Oh, yes?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LIAM: 48?
TALIESIN: 49, motherfuckers.
LIAM: No, 48 hours.
TALIESIN: 48 hours till 49.
LIAM: 48 till 49.
ROBBIE: Whoa! It's your last 48 of 48?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
ROBBIE: What are you going to do? Tear the house, tear down.
TALIESIN: I'm going to sleep.
ASHLEY: Wait, tomorrow's your birthday?
TALIESIN: No, Sunday.
ASHLEY: Sunday's your birthday.
SAM: Sunday, Sunday, Sunday.
TALIESIN: I'm going to do what you do, which is I'm going to sleep and my back's going to hurt. 
ROBBIE: Yeah.
ALL: (laughter)
TALIESIN: Super exciting.
AABRIA: Tal, you got to stop dropping horrific truths.
ROBBIE: Yeah.
AABRIA: Please, calm down.
TALIESIN: There will be mescaline involved, too. Are you satisfied?
AABRIA: I am, thank you.
TALIESIN: I hurt. I'm not dead. Jesus.
TRAVIS: Love you awesome nerds.
AABRIA: I would kill or die for all of you.
MATT: Love you guys.
AIMEE: Thank you so much!
ASHLEY: I love you guys!
TALIESIN: 10 goddamn years!
ASHLEY: This was so fun.