List of Transcripts

Contents

1 Pre-Show
2 Part I
3 Break
4 Part II


Pre-Show[]
MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. 
ALL: (hollering) We play Dungeons & Dragons! 
MATT: All of that. Before we get started in our episode tonight, we do have some announcements to get through, beginning with our first sponsor tonight, which is Quip. Sam. Sam? 
SAM: Hey, everybody! Good evening, ladies and germs. It's me, Ludo McGillicutty and welcome to the Quip Public Domain Lounge, where all the teeth are clean, and all the songs are public domain. 
MATT: What is happening right now? 
SAM: Well, you're on the Quip Public Domain Lounge, my friend. 
MATT: I hate this. 
SAM: Quip, the good habits company. What's your name, kiddo? 
MATT: Matt. I'm... 
SAM: Well, Mark-- (laughter) 
SAM: Quip's smart electric toothbrushes have the guiding features of their original with a new Bluetooth smart motor that connects to their free Quip app. Speaking of free, here's a royalty-free song dedicated to you, Max. (tune of Meet me in St. Louis) ♪ Meet me in St. Quippy, Quippy, Use their free app ♪ ♪ To track your brushing ♪ ♪ Get tips and  daily coaching ♪ ♪ And earn rewards like  Target gift cards ♪ Thank you. Thank you. Now, Myron. 
TRAVIS: (groans) 
SAM: I see you're alone tonight at the club. Is that because of your vicious halitosis? 
MATT: I do not have halitosis. 
SAM: Say it, don't spray it, Mewtwo. (laughter) 
SAM: Your breath smells like-- (laughter) 
SAM: Your breath smells like my ex-- (laughs) Your breath smells like my ex-wife's ashtray. God rest her soul. 
MATT: I'm actually really sorry about your ex-wife. 
SAM: Oh, she didn't pass. I just wish to god she'd rest her soul. She doesn't sleep enough. Poor thing. (laughter) 
SAM: Speaking of poor things, Maverick, this song with a lapsed copyright was written just for you. 
MATT: Okay? 
SAM: (tune of Rockin' Robin) ♪ He rocks in the treetops all day long ♪ ♪ Marco's nasty breath smells really wrong ♪ ♪ If he only used Quip's  anti-cavity mouthwash ♪ ♪ The 4x concentrated formula packs ♪ ♪ Everything your mouth needs with none of the alcohol ♪ ♪ Or artificial colors in other brands ♪ ♪ Rockin' Robin ♪ Whoo! Tweet, tweet. Thank you. Thank you. I do accept tips. 
MATT: Wrap it up, Riegel, please. 
SAM: Okay. I will. On behalf of Quip, it's been Ludo McGillicutty reminding you to start getting rewards for brushing your teeth today by going to getquip.com/CriticalRole25 and saving 25% site-wide when you use code CriticalRole25. That's 25% off site-wide. Oh god. Thanks to Quip for supporting the show. Good night and good teeth. (tune of Take Me Out to the Ballgame) ♪ Take me out to the Quip game, Take me out to the fair ♪ 
MARISHA: Bring him back! 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: Oh my goodness. (applauding) 
MARISHA: Returning character, I love him! 
LIAM: Oh god. 
MATT: I need to wash this shirt. (laughter) 
MATT: Thank you, Quip, for your sponsorship. Thank you, Sam, for my nightmares. (laughs) Next up, Liam, we have some announcements, I believe. 
LIAM: I haven't recovered. That is the Leisure Suit Larry reboot I didn't know I did not want. After a delay, Vox Machina: Origins Series III, Issue 6 will be released this month. Be on the lookout. 
LAURA: So aggressive. 
LIAM: I am. It's really good, and you should check out at your local comic shops. For the latest updates on your comics, graphic novels, and other creations with Dark Horse, check out critrole.com/darkhorseguide. 
TRAVIS: You better check it out! 
MATT: Got it. (laughs) 
LIAM: Get over here! (laughter) 
MATT: All right, brother! No. Laura, we have merch, I believe. 
LAURA: Okay. We got some cool merch! (imitates fanfare) This is a Sprinkle hanger plush. 
TALIESIN: Oh. 
MATT: Oh, that's... 
LAURA: Get ready! (awwing) 
TRAVIS: (as Sprinkle) Put me back in the box! 
LAURA: He's got a little cupcake charm! 
MATT: Is there little paws on the bottom? 
LAURA: He's got little paws-- 
MATT: Oh my god. 
LAURA: -- on his bottom. He's so cute! 
ASHLEY: Aw! 
LAURA: You could clip him onto your bag. Take him with you. 
MATT: He's just sleeping. He's just sleeping. (laughter) 
LAURA: He's just sleeping. (laughter) 
LIAM: He's resting his soul. 
TRAVIS: (as Sprinkle) I can't open my eyes! 
MARISHA: He's resting his soul. 
LAURA: Check him out. Go get him. He's in the store. Next up. Oh god! Oh god! Okay, wait! No, here we go! I'm sitting on it. 
TALIESIN: Are we doing it? 
LAURA: Yeah, we're doing it. 
TALIESIN: All right, we're doing it. 
LAURA: You guys. Finally. 
MARISHA: Finally! 
LAURA: Yeah, he's going to put it on. This is our-- Look at this. So we're doing this thing. We're doing collections. 
MARISHA: Woo! 
LAURA: This is the first of a collection, The Beauty of Exandria: The Wildes. This is the first one. I can't tell you what any of the other ones are, but look out in the next coming weeks because they will be coming. This one is our Caduceus cardigan sweater. 
TRAVIS: Get one now. 
MARISHA: It's so cool. 
LAURA: It's got beetles. It's got tea. 
TRAVIS: It's got a teapot underneath the beetle! 
LAURA: You guys, it's so comfy, and it's wonderful. Do you love it, Taliesin? 
TALIESIN: I've been living in this for months now, and anytime I run into somebody out in the real world, because of you, I have to take off my jacket and then wave and do a picture and then put it back on. 
LAURA: It's so, so wonderful. I'm so excited about this. 
TALIESIN: I love it. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I've been living in it. 
LAURA: It was designed by Adriann Helton. Just fabulous. 
LIAM: What are you going to do with that one? 
LAURA: Well-- 
TRAVIS: Not give it to you, punk! 
LAURA: I already have one at home. 
LIAM: Oh yeah? 
MARISHA: I have one at home, too. 
LAURA: Okay, so if you want to keep this, it's a medium. 
TRAVIS: Wow! What about your husband over here? 
LIAM: Oh, are you a medium? 
TRAVIS: I could make it work. 
ASHLEY: What about me? 
TALIESIN: Right? 
LAURA: Next up. In addition to, it's a cardigan. 
ASHLEY: I have COVID, give it to me. 
MATT: That's true, that's true. 
TALIESIN: It's the COVID sweater. 
LAURA: We have a Mighty Vibes Series Caduceus puzzle. 
MATT: That's awesome. 
TALIESIN: Oh yeah. 
LAURA: Isn't it beautiful? 
MARISHA and ASHLEY: Yes! 
LAURA: It's made by our friends at the O-P, The Op. I always say it wrong. 
TRAVIS: The O-P. 
LAURA: The art is by Kami Areopagita and Kevin Areopagita. They are the ones that did our animated series for Mighty Nein, and they're amazing. 
MATT: They are fantastic. 
LAURA: This is amazing. That's what I said. What did I say that? 
TRAVIS: You said series. 
LAURA: God, I can't. 
TRAVIS: You're doing so good, and-- 
LAURA: I don't know what I'm saying. 
TRAVIS: -- your pigtails are working. 
LAURA: Thanks. 
ASHLEY: So cute. 
LAURA: Thanks, Ashley. 
ASHLEY: It's the best. 
LAURA: This is available in the Critical Role store, and it's also available anywhere The Op puzzles are sold. 
TRAVIS: She's the picture of composure. 
LAURA: Look at how beautiful this puzzle is. I can't wait to put it together. 
TALIESIN: I'm very excited. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Also, go watch Mighty Vibes. 
LAURA: Also, watch Mighty Vibes. They're really great. Check out Mighty Vibes. 
MATT: Awesome. Yeah, yeah. My dad and my brother did music on that one, too. 
TALIESIN: I know. I'm really excited. 
MATT: Thank you, Laura. 
LAURA: Oh, you're welcome. 
MATT: (laughs) By the ever-sealed lids of a tiny Sprinkle toy, I think it is time for us to go ahead and jump into tonight's episode of Critical Role. 
♪ Critical ♪♪ Critical ♪♪ It's Thursday ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ One-by-one, we climb until we reach the top. ♪♪ Two-by-two, we fall. ♪ 
LAURA: ♪ Will we meet our end or meet our destiny? ♪♪ Hold your breath and roll! ♪ 
MATT: How do you want to do this? 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ Who knows what will happen? ♪♪ He might! ♪♪ But one thing's for sure, ♪♪ We never give up on the fight! ♪ 
TRAVIS: ♪ From the healer ♪ 
LIAM: ♪ To the renegade ♪ 
MATT: ♪ We all share the same goal ♪
MATT and TALIESIN: ♪ Adding more allies ♪♪ Taking more chances ♪ 
SAM: ♪ Hold your breath and roll ♪ 
MARISHA: You can certainly try. 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ It's Thursday night. ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ From darkness, our friendship will rise ♪♪ But one thing's for sure: ♪♪ We never give up on the fight ♪♪ Oh, get ready, ♪♪ Get ready, ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪
(flames whooshing) 

Part I[]
MATT: Last we left off, Bells Hells had made their journey-- 
LAURA: That's us! 
SAM: ♪ Made their journey ♪ 
MATT: -- northward here in the Oderan Wilds to Heartmoor Hamlet in search of answers about the murder of the Lumas twins and the thread of the assassins that you, Orym, have been following, as well as it seems discovering some connections with the nightmare that's been haunting Imogen for a good portion of her young-to-current adult life. You were also here to break into the Twilight Mirror Museum at the behest of Ms. Jiana Hexum to both embarrass, if possible, the proprietor of it, as well as win a wager that she had made with Evon Hytroga. You managed to break in against a competitive burglary team known as The Verdict. You got caught in a lot of traps, and they got caught in some traps, too, and you gave traps to each other, and then you fought some weird clay golem things. Then you repeatedly hit a button and burned the fuck out of the other team. 
TRAVIS: Sure did. ♪ They had it comin' ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ They had it comin' ♪ 
MATT: It's perfect. And you won the wager. You retrieved the specific object that was notified to be waiting for you at the end of the museum. Safely, (chuckles) more or less. In doing so, won the arrangement for Hexum. On your way out, you delved into seemingly some sort of a shared or uniquely parallel history with one of the local carvers in the space. Other crafters of fine wooden and other materials. 
LIAM: That was intense. 
MATT: That was intense. 
ASHLEY: Very intense. 
TRAVIS: Totally the way I thought that was going to go. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: I love this cape. 
MATT: It's so ridiculous. As well as running into Estani on the way out, who had been contemplating the conversations you had had and trusted you with a little more information about some sort of a troop, or a group, that referred to themselves as the Grim Verity that seem to be heading up some of the similar research into these strange astral oddities that the Lumas twins had been looking into, themselves seemingly, possibly, members. Upon leaving, you mounted your horses and headed southward on a relatively safe journey back. Having knowing the roads a little better, managed to avoid any serious conflict or issues. We finished the last session with you stepping towards the base of the city just as the sun had begun to set and the flame of the Prakash Pyre guided you to Jrusar. So, Bells Hells, what would you like to do? 
ASHLEY: Boy, that last end of the trip was just wild. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Yeah, honestly, you felt a little out of it, Fearne. 
ASHLEY: I did. I was just a little out of it. I'm not really sure why. 
TRAVIS: That physical magnetism, though. We didn't skip a beat, baby. 
ASHLEY: Never, never. Right on rhythm. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: What time? 
LAURA: We've already returned the horses. 
TALIESIN: Evening. 
TRAVIS: Evening. 
MARISHA: That's right. We returned the horses. 
SAM: Nothing new, but, during the journey, if I may go back in time for a second. 
MATT: Yes. 
TRAVIS: (rewinding noises) 
SAM: Not in a creepy way-- 
MATT: Uh-oh. (laughter) 
SAM: -- but when I was on watch a night or two, 
MATT: Yeah? 
SAM: I've paid careful attention to Imogen's... her behavior at sleep. Like what time she seemed to be in REM sleep. 
TRAVIS: (deeply) "I watch her when she sleeps." 
SAM: Yeah, exactly. (laughter) 
LAURA: In a creepy way. 
SAM: Not in a creepy way. Just trying to figure out if she dreams every night or if she just dreams some nights, just trying to figure out a pattern or something. That's it. 
MATT: Roll an insight check for me. 
TALIESIN: Somewhere between stalker on iPhone, I suppose. 
SAM: Natural 20. (oohing) 
MATT: For a total of? 
MARISHA: Happy Thursday. 
SAM: Insight, I'm pretty good on, 26. 
LAURA: Wow. 
MATT: Well, first off, Imogen, is there anything that you think would have been noticeable during these nights' sleep? 
SAM: Not in a creepy way. (chuckling) 
SAM: So don't even go there. 
TRAVIS: She farts a lot. 
LAURA: Just a lot of tootin'. 
TRAVIS: (as Laura) "I just got them toots." 
LAURA: This sounds weird, but, you notice I've been sleeping with my hand in my-- 
TRAVIS: Your pants? 
LAURA: -- in my pants (laughs). No, in my side pouch. (laughter) 
LAURA: It's not in my pocket, but it's a side pouch that's on my clothes. 
SAM: Like, in it? On it? Around it? 
LAURA: My hand is in-- 
LIAM: It's a false pocket. 
SAM: That area. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: Okay. Interesting. 
LIAM: Hole's cut out. 
LAURA: Yeah, that's probably-- 
SAM: I mean, that's plenty. That's a lot. 
LAURA: That would be the most... 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: You would probably notice I feel very uncomfortable going to sleep, but you might have noticed that one already. 
SAM: I did, yes. 
MATT: I would say on top of that, too, at certain moments of restlessness in which you can see-- You rolled really high. You can see when the face tenses, when the body seems to be challenged in finding comfort. The hand then finds the pouch, and then comfort seems to come quickly thereafter. 
SAM: Oh. Okay. 
MATT: All right. 
SAM: To Jrusar! (laughs) 
MATT: You're there! (laughter) 
LIAM: I don't need to go through anything, but I would say on the ride, Orym would've explained the Grim Verity, Ebenold Kai, and not Spy Shine, Spireling Shenn. 
SAM: Eyeshine. 
LIAM: Shout out to Eyeshine. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: That's right, Spireling Shenn. Right, right, right, right, right. 
SAM: Cool. 
LIAM: Cool. That's it. 
SAM: Now that we're in town again, some things on our to-do list include-- 
LIAM: Well, Hexum. 
TRAVIS: Ajit Dayal. 
SAM: That's for you. 
TRAVIS: That's for me. 
LAURA: Oh yeah. 
SAM: Hexum for-- 
LAURA: Ashton. 
SAM: Just Ashton? 
TALIESIN: I mean, I can go solo, if necessary. 
SAM: No, no, no. No, no. 
LAURA: We're checking in. Fearne also wanted that statue of... 
SAM: Where was that? 
LAURA: Well, one of her statues, Hexum. Fearne asked for a payment if we succeeded. 
ASHLEY: Oh, yes, that's right. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: If we succeeded, she was definitely going to give me that statue. 
LAURA: That changes the shape of the face. 
SAM: Oh yeah, that's right, that's right. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: It was definitely formally agreed upon. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, definitely. 
MATT: Written in the contract. 
ASHLEY: Yes, we made a contract. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: A verbal one. 
MATT: (laughs) 
SAM: We got to check in with Lord Eshteross at some point. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Okay, yeah. 
LAURA: Lord Worcestershire? (laughter) 
SAM: Any other pressing matters? Marwa's shop? Just because it's fun. 
LAURA: Just because. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Especially once we have a little change in our pocket, that could be fucking great. 
SAM: Okay. Well, what's up first? 
MARISHA: It's sunset, right? 
MATT: Upon arriving, upon stepping into the Lantern Spire and getting into the city itself proper, I would say by now, the early night has kicked in, the oranges and reds and purples of the sunset have just begun to fade into the dark blue and eventually heading towards twilight into the dark night itself. So, the city is yours. You can see the various torches and lanterns now ablaze down the ray of the roads to the Fatewalk across to the Core Spire. The city is yours. 
LIAM: I don't know. It's kind of late. Maybe we want to just hole up and relax for a bit and then start fresh in the morning. 
SAM: Sure. 
TALIESIN: I'm all right for that. 
LIAM: Where do you want to stay? Who's liked what here? 
SAM: Well, where do we normally stay? 
LAURA: How have we forgotten this? 
TRAVIS: Sit and Spin. 
ASHLEY: Sit and Spin. 
MATT: You've stayed at the Spire by Fire. 
LAURA: Yeah, Spire by Fire. 
MATT: You've stayed at the Soot and Swill. 
MARISHA: I think that one's my favorite. 
LAURA: Yeah, the Spire by Fire. Let's go there. 
MATT: Okay. All right. Stepping through the bustling early evening, you can see that the normal hour in which those who are finishing their shifts of work have set out into the night to find some sort of adventure or fun, whether it be drinks, and socialization is there. Some individuals that work into the nights are preparing for whatever shifts they take through the wee hours, but the long bridge that is the Fatewalk guides you towards the Core Spire until eventually the familiar sight, the impressive inn exterior of the Spire by Fire. The bright torch light on the very front and the now bustling interior of the front tavern space is presented before you. You're looking to get rooms for the evening? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Ishir's in, yeah. 
MATT: Okay. The typical crowd is within, as well as the proprietor. The rooms, are you just getting one night? 
LAURA: Yeah, probably. 
LIAM: Well, what do you-- 
LAURA: Two nights? Maybe two nights. 
LIAM: Let's do two. We can always leave. 
TALIESIN: Let's call it two, and we can always book if we have to. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. Two nights. For two rooms? Three rooms? 
LAURA: What do you think, Chet? Do you want to sleep alone again and hope Fearne joins you, or would you rather-- 
TRAVIS: What? 
LAURA: -- sleep in a room with the rest of us? 
TRAVIS: I mean, I'm down for a little, you know, a little co-op. A little team building. 
LAURA: So maybe two rooms? 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Which room is Fearne in? 
ASHLEY: Well, I'll just go into any room, I mean-- 
TRAVIS: I mean, it doesn't matter to me, I just want everyone else to be aware. 
MARISHA: Aware. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I think she's crashing with us, then. I think that's fair. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, that makes sense. 
SAM: Totally, makes sense to me. 
TALIESIN: Thank you, FCG. 
MATT: Ishir, the male katari that normally takes care of the front of the tavern in this part of the night, leans forward with his orange brown fur and he goes, "Okay, yeah. Two rooms, two nights, that'll put you back say, two gold pieces and here's your keys." 
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm taking this one, I'm so excited. 
LAURA: Well, thank you, Ashton. 
MATT: "Would you like drinks brought to your room at all?" 
TALIESIN: Oh, yes, please. 
ASHLEY: Oh wow. 
LAURA: Yeah, that'd be wonderful. 
ASHLEY: I didn't even know that was an option. 
MARISHA: Can we get food as well? 
MATT: "No, just drinks." 
MARISHA: Oh. 
MATT: "No, you can get food, if you want. It is an extra charge." 
MARISHA: That's fair. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, okay. 
MATT: "All right, we'll say for a round of meals brought to the rooms for the night here, including, what do you want, liquor, ale, beer, wine, what're you feeling?" 
TALIESIN: Whatever an extra gold will buy. I'm going three. 
MATT: "Very well." 
TALIESIN: It's been a good week! 
MATT: "Big spenders! (laughs) All right, get to your room, we'll get you situated here shortly." With that, you guys are able to go to your two chambers. They are modest enough, but comfortable with a divided troop. There is at least enough bed space. Though there are two beds per room, enough bed space with some coupling, or the floor, if you prefer. 
TRAVIS: Coupling, you say? We got to couple up. What? FCG, you want to? 
SAM: Yeah, we all heard it. 
TRAVIS: Did you want to bunk up? 
SAM: Yeah, me and Ashton and Fearne, I think we were going to-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah, we're going to bump up. Yeah, bunk up, that's going to be great, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Where are you going, Orym? 
LIAM: I'm easy. I fit anywhere. 
LAURA: There's four beds, but if y'all just want to leave a couple beds empty and sleep three to a couple of them, then you know, you do your thing. 
TRAVIS: I jump up, one of these is open if anybody wants to share. If you want to join Chetney Island. 
TALIESIN: I'm coming right in. 
TALIESIN: Wham! Ashton impacts the side of the bed. 
TALIESIN: Pure stone! 
TRAVIS: (muffled yelling) 
TALIESIN: I warn you, I toss and turn and I'm a snorer. 
TRAVIS: (muffled speech) Your body is hard! 
TALIESIN: I also sleep anywhere, this is just-- 
MATT: As a trained carpenter, your heart drops into your stomach at the sound, a very familiar sound of load-bearing wood cracking ever so slightly. 
TRAVIS: Don't do it. Don't do it! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Please! I'll sleep on the floor, all right. 
MATT: A short time later, there's knock at the door and you see a young, can't be older than 19 or 20, boy who is currently carrying multiple trays with food that looks like it's fairly fresh, if not standard fare here in the Spire by Fire and-- 
LAURA: I help him out and I don't take it from his hands. 
MATT: "It's hot, be careful." 
LAURA: Food just starts levitating, the plates start levitating across the room to the-- 
MATT: "Okay, you're good." Closes the door. 
ASHLEY: Wait, wait, who cooked these? This food. 
MATT: "Our cook, Janey, why?" 
ASHLEY: Oh, never mind. I think that might be somewhere else. 
SAM: I think it is, Pretty works somewhere else. 
ASHLEY: Pretty works somewhere else, that's right. Okay, never mind. 
TRAVIS: What's your name? 
MATT: "Good night. Good night." (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Damn it, we almost had him! 
LIAM: What's your name, fresh meat? 
TRAVIS: Skimmed off the event horizon of the black hole. 
MATT: Yep, it was too much. As soon as he saw the eyes, he's like, nope! (laughter) 
TALIESIN: "My name is Waiter! Ah!" (laughter) 
LIAM: There's a vibe in the room. 
TALIESIN: Tell me about your parents. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: (deeply) What's your name? 
LIAM: Want some candy? Want-Want-Want some candy? 
MATT: Oh my god. Food and drinks are yours, the night is yours. You can discuss what you wish to discuss or move on to the next morning, up to you. 
SAM: We can just move on, right? 
LAURA: Yeah, what are we going to do in the morning? 
TRAVIS: Was he part of a Mahaan House? I have Mahaan House next to-- 
MATT: Correct, yes. 
TRAVIS: Mahaan House Dayal? 
MATT: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Oh, all right. 
TALIESIN: I say we get Hexum out-- 
MATT: Specifically, a location referred to as the Dayal Hall is where his place of business is. 
TRAVIS: Got it. 
TALIESIN: I say we get Hexum out of the way. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: I would like to go in there. I would like to put forward because I don't think I was quite clear enough. The less personal information she gets the better. She's fine, she's just-- She can get single-minded, and you just don't want to draw too much attention to yourself, especially-- 
LIAM: Do you want to do the talking? 
TALIESIN: I'd prefer to. If she wants to hear from anybody, feel free, but I don't want to put it in her head that anybody is for, you know-- 
TRAVIS: Sale? 
TALIESIN: Available for sale, rental, or display. 
LAURA: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Ugh. 
TALIESIN: So conversations about your possible worth and value are, I'm not going to say dangerous, but I just don't like putting ideas in her head. 
SAM: I think I understand. We'll act accordingly. 
TALIESIN: God, it makes me so nervous every time you say that. 
SAM: Maybe I should wear the pants and shoes. 
TALIESIN: No. 
LAURA: You should definitely not ever do that again, ever. 
SAM: (laughs) Okay. 
TALIESIN: I mean, that way, I suppose if she asks, you can-- (laughter) 
TRAVIS: It can only drive the value down, it's really not bad. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Just take it before you go in. 
TALIESIN: I'd also say-- well, try not to steal. I mean, I'm not going to be mad if you get away with it. I'll be very angry if you don't. That's what I'll say. 
ASHLEY: To steal from her or not to? 
MARISHA: It was very complicated, Ashton. 
LIAM: That's the question. 
TALIESIN: That is the question. 
ASHLEY: That is definitely always the question. 
TRAVIS: To steal or not to steal. 
TALIESIN: I would say don't steal from her, but if you do steal from her, don't get caught. Succeed. 
ASHLEY: Okay, I mean, I don't really-- I just borrow for a long time. 
LIAM: How many things have you brought back? 
ASHLEY: Oh, well-- I haven't brought anything back just yet, but I will. 
TALIESIN: You have been busy. 
ASHLEY: We've had so much going on, so I just-- You know, things happen in time, but we'll get there. 
LAURA: Think about all the adventures you're giving these items. 
ASHLEY: Yes, I know. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, "don't steal" is usually a suggestion; "don't get caught" is a rule, that's my philosophy. 
TRAVIS: ♪ Don't steal, you know just what I-- ♪ 
MARISHA: I remember someone once said, only steal from grumpy people, I heard that once. 
LAURA: Who said that? 
TALIESIN: Anybody can be grumpy if you work hard enough. 
MARISHA: I agree. 
LAURA: That's true. 
TRAVIS: That was deep. 
MARISHA: I have a question. When talking to Hexum, should we maybe, I don't know, get a gift card or something to send to Sabanis, since we almost killed the other competitors? Like a bouquet of flowers, nice sirloin? 
TALIESIN: I feel bad for them, I don't know if I feel bad for-- 
MARISHA: Well, I mean, just because she's the middle man, if you will. So she can deliver the message. 
TRAVIS: I mean, I'd never gotten a gift for sucking at something before. 
MARISHA: Oh, sure. 
SAM: They survived, right? And we healed them. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, when do you get a gift for losing? 
MARISHA: That's fair. 
TALIESIN: Anything you survive is kind of a win. 
SAM: But it might put us in their good graces? So it's a wonderful, kind gesture. 
MARISHA: I like them, The Verdict. 
LIAM: Got to word it carefully though, because it could read like passive aggression. 
MARISHA: Ooh, right. 
SAM: What would you say? 
TRAVIS: How would you phrase it? Roleplay, go for it. 
MARISHA: "Dear Mistress Shibana." 
TRAVIS: Okay, it's a good start. 
MARISHA: "So sorry for... um winning (laughs) and torching your teammates." 
LIAM: This is what I'm talking about. 
SAM: That's sincere. 
MARISHA: "I hope you have--" 
TALIESIN: It is sincere. (laughs) 
MARISHA: "-- a lovely rest of your life." Does that sound good? 
SAM: That sounds good to me, the way that you say it. 
TALIESIN: That to me, personally, sounds-- 
TRAVIS: Like an insult. 
TALIESIN: Like you just broke up with someone and stole all their stuff while they were out at work. I'm not against it, I'm just saying, if that's what you want to put forward, that's what I'm getting. 
LAURA: "So sorry for, um, winning, ha-ha, and torching your teammates." (laughter) "Hope you have a good rest of your life." (laughter) 
TRAVIS: "Ha-ha." 
SAM: When you read it like that. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, that does sound a little-- 
LIAM: You shouldn't text that, though, you should say that directly to-- 
MARISHA: Sure, that's fair. 
ASHLEY: The tone gets lost. 
LAURA: Maybe I could send a message. 
SAM: About the tone, yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: If we run into her. 
SAM and MARISHA: We'll do it in-person. 
MARISHA: You know, if the universe wills it. 
TALIESIN: You buy somebody a bottle of something and you're like, "No hard feelings, hope to work together next time." 
LAURA: Oh yeah, that's a good one, just say, "No hard feelings." 
TALIESIN: No hard feelings. 
LAURA: That's a good message. 
ASHLEY: Like an edible fruit bouquet or something. 
TALIESIN: Oh man, yeah. I've seen those before, they look great. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MARISHA: All right. I don't know. 
SAM: No, it's good. To Hexum's, then? 
TALIESIN: Let's get this out of the way. 
SAM: Is it the next day? 
MATT: Well, it's still night, you're in your room. If you want to sleep, you can do that and then the next day-- 
TRAVIS: But do we need to take a watch? 
SAM: No, we're in a hotel. 
LAURA: No, we're fine now. 
ASHLEY: Are you sure? 
TRAVIS: Man, you guys have lived a privileged life. 
TALIESIN: No, but you know. 
TRAVIS: We're hot targets now. 
MARISHA: He's got a point. 
SAM: Are we? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, we could have bounties on our heads. We were around a guy that was worth 20 gold! 20k gold! 
MARISHA: A lot of people get murdered in hotels. 
LAURA: That's true, we've seen it. 
ASHLEY: Very true. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: Should we ask the barkeep if there are any bounties on us? 
LAURA: How would he know? 
SAM: Well, I assume that the people who run establishments would know the scuttlebutt around town. 
LAURA: I think we're all right. 
SAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Should I keep first watch, just in case? 
SAM: Sure. If you want to stay up, go for it. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: We're all going to go to sleep except for-- 
MARISHA: Chetney. (laughs) 
SAM: We're going to have one watch. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: I could go downstairs and just ask. 
SAM: Sure. 
LIAM: I'll go after you, Chet, but I don't know if we have a third volunteer. 
ASHLEY: I'll volunteer. 
TALIESIN: There we are. 
MATT: All right, so we have the trio of watch and you're going to the-- 
TALIESIN: I was going to run downstairs really quick and see if, was it Kalliyan? 
MATT: Kalliyan's the name, yeah. Kalliyan's the bouncer. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I was going to find Kalliyan. Just run downstairs. 
MATT: Okay. So as you head back down, you can see, sitting to the right in a heavily reinforced bench/stool, Kalliyan, lumbering forward and one hand settled on the left knee while her right large, elephantine hand looks like it's clutching a series of metallic balls that she's swirling in the fingers. Fumbling one, (groans) picks it up, puts it back and continues to concentrate. As you approach, they stop and you hear the clacking freeze. "Hi." 
TALIESIN: Hi. 
MATT: "Been a bit." 
TALIESIN: Yeah. I was just curious, does anybody put out some money for me, dead or alive, that you've heard about? 
MATT: "I mean, that sort of thing does happen on occasion." 
TALIESIN: I mean, in the last week? 
MATT: "In small spaces, maybe. Nothing that's-- What are you getting at?" 
TALIESIN: Insight check. 
MATT: Make an insight check. 
TALIESIN: Oh wow. 16. 
MATT: 16. Don't worry about a whisper since you're the only person present in this sequence. Genuinely seems a little confused as to what you're trying to glean or pull from her but doesn't seem to be hiding anything, necessarily. 
TALIESIN: Okay, cool, I just pissed some people off last week, I was just testing. Not that you need to know, it's all good. You want a beer? 
MATT: "I'm on the job, I can't drink." 
TALIESIN: Oh, well, I'll have a beer for you, thanks! I run back up stairs. 
MATT: "What a strange one," as you step away and head back to the chamber. All right, who's taking first watch? 
TRAVIS: I am! 
MATT: All right, Chetney, make a perception check for me, please, while the rest of you rest. 
TRAVIS: 14, uh, 14, no, 18! (laughter) 
LAURA: 14-ah! 
MATT: Too deep in the roleplay there. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I'm well rested. 
MATT: All right, uneventful. You hear the occasional rowdy outburst throughout the night. The early parts of the evening. The energy of the tavern downstairs tends to wind down. You keep an ear out. 
TRAVIS: Because my notes look like a fourth grader's, was the Prism Emporium run by Tua Tutwani? Is that right? 
MATT: Okay, hold on. 
TRAVIS: I'm trying to remember when I went and bought that chisel and I was overcharged for the set. 
MATT: Correct, yeah, that was the Prism Emporium. Yeah, and that was Tuyen Otwana. 
TRAVIS: Tua Tutana, okay. Going to kill them, all right. (laughter) 
MATT: Ha, boy. Okay, a few hours go by, no major issue, you watch comes to an end. Who do you wake up? 
TRAVIS: Orym! Orym. Sorry, pal, it's you. 
LIAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Coast is clear. 
LIAM: Nothing? 
TRAVIS: Nothing. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: That's exactly what they want us to think. Be vigilant! (snores) (laughter) 
MATT: All right, roll a perception check for me, Orym. 
LIAM: Ooh, there's a natural one, I get to reroll. And that jumped up on top, but that's not as good as the other one, that is a 23 total. 
MATT: 23. 
LIAM: 20, no, no, 26 total. No, 24 total. 24 total. Give or take, let's say 23 and a half. 
MATT: All right, all right, got to average it out. Quiet, at one point, you do hear some heavy (thudding) out in the hall and you get a bit tense, but you listen and you hear some slurred grumbling and somebody continues lumbering down the hall, a bit trashed, to their room, before the door slams down the way. Beyond that, no major issue. Then your watch comes to a conclusion. 
LIAM: All right, well I walk over to the witch pile and I shake awake the furry one. Hey! 
ASHLEY: Yes, hello. 
LIAM: You're up. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. I'll take your spot. I roll into the corner of the bed. 
MATT: Okay. Fearne, roll a perception check for me, please. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Ooh, natural 19 plus-- 
MATT: Okay, an uneventful passage, thankfully, this early in the morning. Aside from the loud snoring of Chetney across the room. (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Oh, oh, I want to do something. 
MATT: Sure, yeah, what do you want to do? 
ASHLEY: I would like to walk over to the side of Ashton while he's sleeping. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: And I want to-- I want to watch his head and try to see if anything's happening. 
SAM: Inside his brain? 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LIAM: Want to see the brain. 
MATT: So, in the low light here, you take quite a bit of time. From a third person perspective, this is really creepy. You're just inches from the crystal-like exposed portion of the their dome. 
ASHLEY: Mouth breathing. 
MATT: Yeah, you see the fog going in and out. 
LIAM: The goat eyes. (laughter) 
MATT: You don't see a brain, it isn't like a glass dome with fleshy organ visible. But at close look, you can see the inside looks like clouded cracked crystal. You see what looks like a storm of quartz frozen in place, like an odd natural ice that is just locked in time. As you focus on it, occasionally you see a bit of red spark, and a bit of purple just glow and shift. There's like a very, very subtle microcosm of chaos and energy just sparking around beyond the opaque portion of this exposed crystalline wound. It's beautiful. 
ASHLEY: So beautiful and calm in there. 
TRAVIS: Do it. 
ASHLEY: I'm just going to put my finger on it and see what happens. (laughter) 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah. 
TALIESIN: Sorry, fucked up that. 
TRAVIS: (gags) 
MATT: It is a smooth-- 
SAM: Criminal. 
MATT: Yes. ♪ ("Smooth Criminal") Ba da da da. Ba da da da. ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ ("Smooth Criminal") Doo doo doot ♪ 
MARISHA: ♪ ("Smooth Criminal") Cha cha ♪ 
MATT: It is a smooth glass-like surface there. As you run your finger along it, there's warmth to it. It has the warmth of skin, but it is a hard surface. As you move your finger along, you almost see a trail of that very faint energy across it, like those energy spheres you'd see in Sharper Image when those existed. 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah. Magazine still does. 
MATT: Yeah, there you go. But it just follows the pressure you place along it. It's cool and you can't stop yourself from doing it a bit. Go ahead and roll a perception check with disadvantage. 
TALIESIN: I was just going to say because there no feeling on the glass, but that would definitely like, it might-- 
MATT: But the proximity and the movement of her finger on it. 
TALIESIN: -- might actually be enough to-- 
MATT: With disadvantage, because you are asleep. 
TALIESIN: Oh, that's fair. 
MATT: (chuckles) 
TALIESIN: Perception check, right? 
MATT: Yes. 
TALIESIN: No, I am out. Nothing above a three. 
MATT: You were shifting their head an inch one way or the other with no reaction. They are down for the count and you are just-- They're a toy for the moment. 
ASHLEY: Okay. I am going to get-- 
TALIESIN: This is so high school. 
ASHLEY: -- really close. I am going to, up against the glass part-- I'm just going to go (exhales). (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Then... (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I'm going to make two dots and then a smiley face. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: (claps) 
MATT: You've got it. Easily enough done, unnoticed, unbothered. As the moisture from your breath beings to fade, you can just faintly still make out the ever so slight image of a smiley face upon the exterior. (chuckles) 
TALIESIN: Touché, touché. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to go back to the bed and move Orym a little and just keep circling like a dog until I find a comfortable spot. (laughter) 
MATT: Okay, you eventually find it and push in, curl against your familiar friends and go to sleep for the last part of your watch. 
LIAM: Yeah, that's the best part: She didn't watch. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Night, night. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: (as Fearne) Everything's good. 
LIAM: (as Fearne) All clear. (laughter) 
LAURA: Oh my gosh. (laughter) 
MATT: A good hour and a half, two hours or so without watch progress for the rest of you sleeping. The sun slowly begins to rise. The temperature of the room begins to grow warmer and warmer. I will say, Ashton. 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
MATT: In your night's rest, whether it be brought on by exterior physical handling of yourself that you're unaware of or not, you sleep soundly, not out of a calm rest, but out of just a physical exhaustion. Still recuperating from the previous journey, but you keep having these flashes, these moments. Memories of holding an adult's hand above you. Flashes of the ground itself tearing and breaking against other shelves of jagged rock. You have images of wandering through the long path from the Hellcatch Valley northward and being mindful of the Crawlers and other wandering brigands. Just moments scattered of your life like a broken puzzle, fractured but put back together, like you. To that point too, flashes of the climatic break-in that set this strange path. The dark lit interior of Hexum's manor, the whispered rushing of the Nobodies around, Milo trying to get you to join, but your confidence and intent to unseat some mystery is keeping you a bit too long behind. Flashing to that crate again, the last thing you remember from that failed burglary, reaching into it and then a striking white coloration. The sound, like a thunder crack, but echoing into 1,000 echoes from all different directions. In one moment, you are 1,000 pieces and then back to one. Waking up in the Krook House, Milo standing over you, their thick glasses upon lenses upon lenses looking down at you with a lantern light, sweat dripping off their face, dirt and grease smeared on their brow. Their knitted cap pulled tightly over as their massive eyes magnified blinking. "You okay? You okay-kay-kay-kay?" The echoes progress even further, hundreds of echoes, "kay-kay-kay, kay-kay-kay, kay-kay-kay." Reversing and then colliding again. Then just dark, restful sleep. You all wake up, comfortable night's rest to get your long rest, if you need it. 
SAM: Yay. 
MATT: Breakfast was not ordered to be delivered either, so you have to retrieve your meal for the moment. 
TRAVIS: Got to leave that shit on the doorknob before you go to bed. (laughter) 
MATT: But the day is yours. 
MARISHA: (sighs) 
LAURA: Food on the go as we head over? 
TALIESIN: Sure, I'm fine with that. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Let's just get this done. 
MATT: Okay, you grab yourself a meal. We'll say for the troop here, a quick grab and go sort of breakfast dish, run you about, we'll say, six silver. 
TALIESIN: That one, too. 
ASHLEY: I'll take care of it. 
TALIESIN: Really? 
ASHLEY: Oh, yes, it's really not a problem. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
MATT: (laughs) As she unseats a few-- 
TRAVIS: Guilt. 
MATT: -- sticky coins from the inside of her fur. (laughter) 
LAURA: Sticky coins, gross. 
LIAM: (as Fearne) They're yours, anyway. 
ASHLEY: Very sticky. I keep getting stuck to my finger. (laughter) 
MATT: Where would you like to go? 
LIAM: I think we should get the biggest out of the way, clear through the decks, go see Hexum. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Let's get some cash. 
LAURA: Oh god, that's right. We get money for this. 
TALIESIN: We get money for this. That's hopefully what they do when you do something you weren't going to do otherwise. 
TRAVIS: This is very exciting. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: Well, you have lots of money, Chet. 
TRAVIS: Look, I'm frugal! I wasn't born rich. I've earned this! 
LAURA: Right. 
SAM: Selling toys? 
LIAM: All from wood? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. Well, yeah. Do you know a lot of people that make wooden toys of an expert nature? I don't think so! 
SAM: We've met several just in the last week and a half. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Fuck, FCG. 
SAM: Well, I mean-- (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Eh, you're my favorite. 
TRAVIS: I thought you were a healer. You cut me deep. 
SAM: I'm sorry. 
TALIESIN: I feel better. 
SAM: I take it back. 
TRAVIS: I need a moment. All right, it's passed. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: No, I mean, you do well. You get paid well for what you do. 
TRAVIS: Well, yeah. 
TALIESIN: I've looked in his wallet. It's very well-stocked. 
LAURA: No, I know-- 
TALIESIN: Or was. 
LAURA: It's become far more well-stocked since he started traveling with us. That's all. 
TRAVIS: I'm a team player! 
TALIESIN: That's why I keep-- 
TRAVIS: I share! 
TALIESIN: -- taking a little off the top. 
TRAVIS: I've picked up the tab for things! Orym knows. 
SAM: He has been very generous. 
TALIESIN: Respect. 
SAM: It's true. 
TRAVIS: You don't see me spending on, you know, extra hotel rooms, just to satisfy my carnal desires. (laughter) 
LAURA: All right? 
LIAM: That was a lot out here in front of the hotel. (laughter) 
MATT: The 11-year-old that's now standing to your left who's licking a piece of rock candy and has been staring at you. He goes, "What's carnal mean?" 
TRAVIS: It's a dessert. Ask your parents. 
MATT: "Okay." 
TALIESIN: You have it for sex. (laughter) 
LAURA: I love it. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Kids are cute. 
LAURA: He's 11. It's fine. (laughter) 
MATT: All right, are you heading to Jiana Hexum's then? 
SAM: Hexum's. 
LIAM: Yeah, yeah. 
MATT: All right. Heading over towards the Lucent Spire where the elite live amongst their well-to-do and expensive estates. You pay each one silver for the path to via the gondola. As you all step-- 
TRAVIS: I'll get it! It's on me. (laughter) 
LAURA: Thanks. 
SAM: There's that generosity. 
LAURA: Thanks, Chet. 
TALIESIN: Carnal generosity, practically. 
LAURA: He's so kind. 
SAM: He's very generous. 
TALIESIN: Am I using that right? 
TRAVIS: Shut up, Ashton. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: And one point. 
MATT: As the doors close, you all rest inside, it rocks gently before. (rumbles) 
ASHLEY: Oh no... 
SAM: Oh no. (laughter) 
LAURA: She's got blurry. She got blurry. 
ASHLEY: Oh no. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Oh, I like blurry Fearne. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I know, I know. 
MARISHA: Her vision... 
LIAM: Blurring. 
MARISHA: Blurring. 
ASHLEY: It'll come back. 
MATT: It'll find its way. 
SAM: Maybe. 
MATT: Much like the gondola, as it rocks in an uncomfortable fashion for a bit at Fearne's pushing, but it does come to rest eventually. Looking down behind you, having returned to the city, you get, once more, that beautiful view. Especially from the height of the Lucent Spire, this path that you have taken. In the late morning, you can see the sun has crashed through and pushed back the majority of the night fog that seemed to have choked the lower jungle bed beneath the city. Glancing upward, you can see the familiar beautiful cobblestone streets, and rising spires of the various homes and abodes and courtyards that surround magnificent Mahaan households and possible members of the Quorum. Eventually stepping off, you return to these neighborhoods and follow the familiar path to Jiana Hexum's somewhat intense-looking, darkly colored estate. Within a moment of knocking, the door opens. The dimly lit interior with nary a window to be seen beyond to the back of the staircase that turns off to the left and up the secondary floor, leaves most of the room in fair shadow. But what you do hear immediately suffusing the chamber is a beautiful solo violin playing. Just, ♪ (humming) ♪ Just gently filling the atmosphere within. 
MARISHA: It's more sentient inanimate objects. Stay away from it! 
SAM: Well, maybe it's someone practicing. 
LAURA: Yeah, does Jiana play an instrument? 
TALIESIN: Does Jiana play an instrument? 
MATT: You've never seen her play an instrument. 
TALIESIN: I've never seen her play an instrument. Doesn't mean she can't. Just I've never seen it. We don't have that kind of relationship. Actually, I take that back. We do, but it would be under very strange circumstances. 
MARISHA: I don't trust it. 
LIAM: Think we assume for now-- 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LIAM: -- that it's an instrument. 
TALIESIN: Playing itself. 
LIAM: Attack with the facts. 
MARISHA: Of course. 
TALIESIN: I mean-- 
LAURA: It could also be like the-- 
TALIESIN: That sounds expensive. 
LAURA: -- Starpoint Conservatory. They have music playing in, that who knows where it comes from. 
SAM: Should we follow the sound? 
LAURA: Or do you know where we're going, Ashton? 
TALIESIN: Hello! 
SAM: That works, too. 
MATT: Violin just keeps playing. 
TALIESIN: I brought stuff and things. 
MATT: The door closes behind you. 
TALIESIN: We follow it. 
LAURA: All right. 
SAM: Yeah, wow, this is weird. Are we safe? 
TALIESIN: Eh. 
SAM: (chuckles) 
MATT: Leading the path forward towards the base of the stairs, the sound of the violin seems to grow louder as you approach the stairs leading to the second floor. You pass by the familiar busts and statues, including the ones that look fairly blank in detail, but as you walk near, you can see them, the enchantment, trying to grasp your shape. Kind of failing at this distance, but it's just enough of a transition, like it's trying to grasp something to hold onto before you pass beyond it and it reverts back to just a blank humanoid bust. Continuing up the stairs, the sound of the violin gets louder. As you head to a secondary landing that is open and overlooks the top of this foyer, you can see open, there is a double door to a study chamber where you've been before. This is, you know to be, one of her personal sitting rooms. Looking just past the door, you can see there are two figures. You can see, one, an older human woman with a pair of spectacles at the end of her nose, wearing a very nice dress, high neck, folded up top. Her hair is put into a high bun with a singular braid that emerges from the center of it and dangles towards the back of her shoulders. 
LAURA: Do we recognize her? 
MATT: No, this is-- 
LAURA: Oh, okay. 
MATT: You're not familiar with this figure. She is just intently, hands clasped, looking forward. About five feet from her, by the mantle of an unlit fireplace, is Jiana Hexum, violin in hand, and is just playing, playing. Not even acknowledging your presence yet. The older woman glances over and notes all of you and then goes back to listening to the music. About a minute of music continues. You listen to it. It is this haunting beautiful melody that you can't help but wonder, based on the atmosphere here, if it is beautiful in its own right, if this is some sort of magically enhanced skill that she is practicing. Is there enchantment involved here? Are you being enchanted being in the proximity of this? Is this dangerous? It's hard to tell in the presence of someone that you've been told and sensed to not trust. But she completes the song and sets the bow to the side. Gives a nod and the older woman stands up. "Well done, you've drastically improved." (clapping) 
MATT: "Here." She reaches into a small bundle on the side and pulls out a few sheets. "Practice these before our next lesson." 
LAURA: Oh. 
MATT: "It appears you have company." Jiana, "Yes, apparently it does. Thank you so much. Yes, Ashton, step inside. Bring your... Hells with you, please." The older woman grabs her little leather briefcase looking side satchel and stands up, gives you all a curtsy and a smile and then exits out from where you came. You hear her footsteps-- 
ASHLEY: Do you have a business card? (laughter) 
MATT: "I do not have a business card, but--" 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: "Why, are you looking for--" 
ASHLEY: We know how to get a hold of you, just in case any of us feel like taking lessons. 
MATT: "Of course, I'm sure Ms. Hexum could pass on my information. (chuckles)" 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
SAM: What was your name? Name? 
MATT: "Dinah." 
SAM: Dinah? 
LAURA: Dinah. 
MATT: "Dinah Veshur." 
LAURA: Dinah Veshur. 
TRAVIS: She's the killer. (laughter) 
MATT: Jiana goes, "She was a long-celebrated violinist here in the city and she's been kind enough to give me lessons in her retirement. So, thank you." She nods and exits. You hear the (clicking) of her hardened shoes clattering on the stairway down to the empty and now still, silent household. 
TRAVIS: As she leaving, can I take a close look at her hands, as she's leaving? Does she have the calloused fingers of someone that's worked a violin and--? 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
LAURA: That's an observe thing. 
TALIESIN: Fancy. 
TRAVIS: You've seen these hands? They're like ballet feet. They're terrible. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Ballet feet. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Ballet feet. 
TRAVIS: Eight. 
MATT: Eight. No, not at all, way too dark. The little bit of light that comes through from that window, as she passes by, it catches mostly her shoulders and the back of her head. It's like a very strong rim light, so you can't make out much detail. 
TRAVIS: Ah! 
LAURA: Does she look like anyone we saw posters of at the theater? 
MATT: No, actually. Well, roll an intelligence check for me, if you don't mind. 
LAURA: (hums) 
TRAVIS: We're doing background checks on these music tutors. 
MATT: I know. 
TRAVIS: Nobody gets away free. 
MATT: I'm not going to let you unveil my big bad this early. 
LAURA: 14. 
MATT: What was it? 
LAURA: 14. 
MATT: 14. Now that you, it's more the hairstyle, if anything, it seems familiar. You can't pinpoint specifically, but you get the sense of like, I mean, if she seems to be that important, you might've passed by a poster or so while you were in the theater. But Jiana says, "Well, friends, I've been notified that you've come to me with good news." 
LAURA: Oh, yeah, that was me. 
MATT: "Yes. Please--" She goes ahead and reaches over and sits into a large, high-backed leather chair and scoots it over to face you. Crosses her legs and places her hands on the edge of her knee. "Tell me, tell me all about it." 
SAM: How long have you been taking lessons? 
MATT: "Oh, just this past year, wanted to pass the time." 
ASHLEY: And you're already that good? 
MATT: "I'm studious when I wish to be." 
SAM: Do you play anything else, or is this your first instrument? It just seems so ambitious to learn something later in life. 
LAURA: (gasps) Oh, FCG. 
MATT: "One does have to find ways of filling the time between endeavors. I've always wanted to see if I could. And, well, it seems that I have the aptitude." 
SAM: That is admirable. That's great, congratulations. 
MATT: "Thank you, kindly. So, please, I would wish to know that this arrangement has been left in my favor." 
TALIESIN: Quite a bit. We met with more resistance than we were expecting. I think your friend was hoping to have everybody killed off in his little museum. 
MATT: "Hmm." 
TALIESIN: Certainly made a go for it. 
MATT: "Evon is not known for his delicate touch, or ingenuity, really." 
TALIESIN: Well, I didn't hit him, although I wanted to. 
MATT: "That is a very normal reaction to its presence." 
TALIESIN: Instead we did this. And I pull out the papers. 
LAURA: Minus the-- 
TALIESIN: The papers we brought. Yeah, the papers that are on hand. 
MATT: "And these are?" 
LAURA: Oh, right. Laudna? 
MARISHA: Oh, right! Do the little frosty-frost. 
MATT: "Oh, quaint. What a dullard to think that would be enough to keep these hidden. Give me a moment," and she begins to read through and thumb through. 
TALIESIN: Didn't really give them a full look, but the couple I really took a look at were pretty funny. 
MATT: "Indeed. Oh, this is delicious." 
TALIESIN: I knew you would. 
MATT: "This will send ripples through our circles, yes, yes." 
LAURA: How long have you known him? 
MATT: "The better part of a decade or so. He's a bit of a putz." 
SAM: (laughs) 
MATT: "But we've thoroughly embarrassed him based on our wager, I've made quite a bit of coin at your success, and as such, I do owe you a bit of coin, if I recall." She stands up and walks over. There's a small chest that's been placed deliberately in this room in an expectant way and as she lifts the edge and reaches within and pulls a hefty velvet pouch out that you can see has quite a bit of weight to it. She lifts it into her arms and hands it over to you. "That is the 3,500 gold pieces we agreed upon, mostly collected in platinum. That is 500 apiece, based on which we had discussed. As to this additional information, well--" You see her thumb through, and she pulls out a very, very small leather pouch and shakes out, you can see a cluster of gems and picks a few out. Hands over a beautifully cut ruby and a bunch of diamonds set into a gold bracelet. "These should easily fetch you well in the neighborhood of 1,000 gold as a bonus." Hands it over. 
LAURA: Just a bonus? That's very kind. 
MATT: "Well, you've provided me enough to keep him thoroughly embarrassed for the next year or more with these papers, so I'm very thankful and I want to ensure that those who work for me and do an exemplary job know that there are exemplary rewards. To that point, I-- and I do not mean this the wrong way-- You are a very surprisingly effective troop, given how you initially presented yourselves. What is it you're up to in the near future? I'm always looking for diligent talent." 
TALIESIN: Oh, we're a little booked at the moment. We're heading out of town for a little while, but-- 
MATT: "Oh, shame." 
TALIESIN: I will say that the group that we did compete against, despite the fact that they lost to us, were impressive and talented, but as that we are friends, as soon as I'm back in town, I will be happy to let you know. 
MATT: "I appreciate that." 
SAM: What kind of work did you have for someone? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, just in case there's a cancellation. 
SAM: Sure, sure. 
MARISHA: Sure. 
MATT: "At the very moment, nothing in particular, but I'm always keeping my eyes down the road. There's always some events, opportunities." 
MARISHA: We're great ball guests! 
MATT: "So I've heard." 
TALIESIN: So you saw. 
LAURA: You've heard? 
MATT: "Mm-hmm." 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: So, just to be clear, we're square. 
MATT: "We are square, Ashton." 
TALIESIN: I look forward to working under slightly less duress in the future. 
MATT: "Fair enough. Well, anything else I can do for you, or shall I set you on your way?" 
MARISHA: I was-- 
LIAM: What about that head? 
LAURA: Oh, right. 
SAM: Head? 
LIAM: Fearne-- 
ASHLEY: Yes, I actually-- 
TALIESIN: You did, actually. 
ASHLEY: I feel like we talked about maybe you were going to give me the statue that was downstairs? Didn't we talk about that? I feel like we did. 
MATT: "Oh, you, you were serious about that?" 
ASHLEY: Oh, very much so. I think it's beautiful. Obviously, I can't carry it with me now, but I would gladly take it off of your hands any time. 
MATT: Make a persuasion check. 
TRAVIS: Accept deliveries? 
ASHLEY: Okay! 
MATT: (laughs) (dice clunks) 
LAURA: Oh, jeez, what is she rolling? 
TRAVIS: Iron dice. 
LIAM: She's cutting onions. 
ASHLEY: 18. 
MATT: 18. "I'll tell you what. If you take it out with you right now, you can have it." 
SAM: (gasps) 
ASHLEY: Okay. Just lift it up and take it out? 
MATT: "Indeed." 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: It's downstairs, or it's--? 
MATT: "On the way out. There's two to choose from right at the base of the stairs." 
ASHLEY: Do you have a preference? 
MATT: "Not particularly, the enchantment is identical." 
LAURA: Are they going to attack or is something going to trigger-- 
TRAVIS: Don't spoil the surprise! 
TALIESIN: I hope so. 
MATT: "Guess you'll have to find out." 
TALIESIN and TRAVIS: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: Oh, this'll be fun, okay. 
MATT: "If I might make a small request. Might I have a few moments alone with your automaton friend here?" 
LAURA: You hear in your head: I don't think you should, I think she's dangerous. 
SAM: You hear back: Ashton gave me some good advice and I'm going to take it. 
LAURA: All right. 
TALIESIN: Would you be comfortable with me staying in the room since you know that I do not talk? 
MATT: "If you like." 
TALIESIN: It won't leave the room. 
MATT: "Very well. The rest of you, just for the purpose of privacy and current curiosities, just give us a few moments, if you don't mind." 
TRAVIS: No problem! Let's fucking go, Fearne! 
ASHLEY: Yeah, let's go! 
LAURA: You hear: If you need anything, just holler and I'll come right back in. All of us will. 
SAM: Will you be able to hear my thoughts or no? 
LAURA: Only if you want me to. 
SAM: I think I'll be okay; Ashton's here. 
LAURA: All right. 
MATT: As the rest of you step outside the study chamber the doors close and you hear (click) a lock on them. Jiana's attention drifts from you and goes directly to you. "Please, approach me." 
SAM: Approach you, okay, sure. I'll roll over. 
MATT: She adjusts to the edge of her seat, in a first chair musician position, chest out, knees to the front, leans forward and looks out and begins to inspect you directly. This close up, you can see the tense lines in her brow. You can see the piercing intelligence in her eyes and the subtle, cold confidence that comes with a person that is used to getting what they want. But she is not at the moment encroaching in a disrespectful way, if a bit forward and probing. "Where were you constructed? Who was your constructor?" 
SAM: Oh, boy, I-I-I've been-- (stammering) D-D-Dancer, d-d-do you know her? She's a-- She was a great gal. Sh-sh-she was my creator. 
MATT: "I cannot say I've worked or heard of a Dancer." 
SAM: She was part of a group. We used to go, you know, on jobs, and she had a few like me, mechanical-based automatons with her, and she ma-- she made them and refurbished them and, you know-- 
MATT: "She was very talented. Your craftsmanship, a bit rough at first, immediate glance, but--" and now her hands come forward. She cups the side of your head on each side and pulls you forward and is now-- She went from connecting with you as another person and is now inspecting a device, and is talking out loud. "The seams, at points, the metal minerals appear to be almost flexible. This is beyond just a simple enchantment.  There is fine craft here, which I've only seen in a few places, by some extremely talented--" 
SAM: If I may, ma'am. 
MATT: "Yes, I'm sorry." 
SAM: The way that you're sort of pawing me, it's not quite the way that I care to be touched. 
MATT: "My apologies, I am-- I'm a studier of the unique, so I get a bit carried away." 
SAM: Well, that's understandable, but you know, the more and more folks like me I encounter in our travels, I don't think-- I don't think they're treated very well. You know, t-there's some that move trolleys from one place to another, and we've met some that have very menial tasks and-- 
MATT: "Well, this is why I find you so fascinating. The standard automaton is but a tool. It lacks sentience, it moves through enchantment, like a flying weapon or a magically opening and closing door would." As she moves her hand you can hear the lock (click-click) on the door to the chamber. 
SAM: Is that a mechanical thing that you've got over there? 
MATT: "These are all very simple enchantments." 
SAM: Enchantments, yeah. 
MATT: She rubs her hand and there are all number of rings and bracelets upon her. She is very well decked out in jewelry and all of it looks very well-made. Says, "I prefer to ease my tasks day to day with the powers at our disposal. So I've dealt with many other automatons and I find that your... awareness is truly unique." 
SAM: It's nice to be called unique, but I don't know, have you ever talked to any of the other automatons? 
MATT: "None of them have talked to me before." 
SAM: Well, maybe there's your problem. Maybe you should go up and say hi sometimes. 
MATT: "(laughs) You may be right. I appreciate that." 
SAM: You're welcome? You know, I don't know you very well, but a bit of advice: Maybe don't touch people's faces and probe around them when you first meet them. I mean, I forgive you, you know, I know you're curious about me and, to be honest with you, I'm sort of curious, too. I haven't met many other folks just like me and I'd like to and I'd like to find out why, but it's just not a good way to get to know someone. I've learned from my friends, the Hells, that you're supposed to take someone out and get a meal with them and go to the theater with them to really get to know them and at the end of the day if they don't like each other, then they just sort of say, like, "I'm not into you" and then you go your separate way. But at least that's the sort of ritual, the social ritual that you're supposed to do, not this poking and prodding thing. 
MATT: "Are you asking me on a date?" 
SAM: Oh, boy, I didn't intend to, but sure, if you'd like to. I mean, I think that would be real neat. I know a restaurant with a really good meal. (laughter) 
MATT: "I am continuously amused at this conversation. I do not think I'm your type." 
SAM: That's exactly what the other fella said about my friends! I guess that's, we just skipped to the end! (laughter) 
MATT: "Well, should you encounter any others of your kind with a similar awareness, sentience, personality, sense of humor, perhaps send them my way." 
SAM: What will you do with them? 
MATT: "Well, I wouldn't be grabbing their face and peering any further, knowing that is a faux pas. But call it professional curiosity. I can make it worth your while." 
SAM: Oh, how so? By giving something to Ashton and my friends? 
MATT: "You'll be paid well, of course." 
SAM: All right, well, I'll keep that in mind and hey, if you have experience with other automatons or mechanical creatures, do you happen to know anyone who's an expert in building or crafting or has a history with the folks like me? Or maybe a place, a place out in, because we're going to do some traveling, so if we ever come across a city that's maybe known for that sort of stuff? 
MATT: "I do have a few contacts, but I believe out of professional respect, I will keep them between us, me and them. As far as locations, well, really, if you look hard enough, many of the various metropolis would probably be able to provide. There are scavengers and crafters all across the Hellcatch Valley, Aeshanadoor in Yios has quite a diverse study of arcana and enchantments and I would not be surprised if there are specialists in automaton creation and enchantment. In fact, I'm pretty sure a number of those that were created for the gondolas for the city were crafted there and sent. There is also Ank'Harel in the Rumedam Desert, though I have not visited there in quite some time. I hope that's helpful." 
SAM: It is. I'll be honest, I can't figure you out too much. 
MATT: "Feeling is mutual." 
SAM: I guess I'm starting to learn that just because you have a soul doesn't mean you know how to use it too good. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: She blinks slowly. 
TRAVIS: (hums) 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
SAM: Anyway, have a smiley day. 
MATT: "You as well, Fresh Cut Grass." 
SAM: That's me! 
MATT: In the interim, is anybody else doing anything or we cut to-- 
TALIESIN: I was waiting for that to end and I'm going to leave last, but go ahead, if anybody else wants to do stuff. 
LAURA: Well, we want to try to get this statue? 
LIAM: Yep. 
MARISHA: Oh, yeah. 
ASHLEY: (groaning and straining) 
MATT: Make a strength check! 
TRAVIS: Is it a bust or is it a full-- 
LAURA: Yeah, how big is it? 
MATT: It is a-- maybe a-- nearly a foot-wide pillar that rises from the ground. It has a spiral shape to it and then on top there is a bust. It looks humanoid, the shoulders and the upper part of a shoulder, and-- 
LAURA: I'm just picturing that Fjord bust we had on the-- (laughter) 
MATT: It is plain, it is featureless beyond just the shape of a head and shoulders and chest. 
TRAVIS: Disney projection magic. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I was just thinking about that. 
LAURA: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Grim grinning ghost. 
MATT: As you're all watching Fearne grab and pull at it-- 
LAURA: Can we try to help? 
MATT: If someone wants to try and roll as well. 
LAURA: I'm going to try to use my telekinesis to help her out. 
MATT: The spell Telekinesis, or the-- 
LAURA: My mage hand, I'm going to telekinese it. 
MATT: Okay, all right. 
SAM: Five pounds of weight. 
MATT: Yep, yep. So what'd you roll-- 
ASHLEY: Come on, we can do it! 
LAURA: It's an extra help of 10 pounds. 
MATT: All right. 
ASHLEY: It'll help. 
MATT: That'll slightly lower the DC, all right. Fearne, what'd you roll? 
ASHLEY: Eight. 
LAURA: Oh, great. 
MATT: (grunting) 
SAM: Guidance. 
ASHLEY: (grunting) Come on! 
LAURA: Did you guide yourself, Fearne? 
ASHLEY: I forgot. 
TRAVIS: A little goat pellet falls out. 
ASHLEY: It's just so heavy! 
LIAM: Every time she strains, I create a little opening bloom on her furry butt. (laughter) 
LIAM: And after 30 seconds, there's about eight or nine of them. 
MATT: While the conversation is happening, you keep having moments of that dream coming back. Looking around the room, you remember being in this room long ago. You remember it darker and shaded and seeing your compatriots rushing around and rummaging through things and you're back and you watch as Fresh Cut Grass and her are having this conversation. The bust is not moving. (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Oh, not today. Maybe we'll come back, it's fine. 
MARISHA: What the fuck is up with that? 
TRAVIS: Are you sure? 
MARISHA: What the fuck is up with that? 
SAM: What, what the-- 
TRAVIS: What if we just take the bust part off of the top of the column? 
LAURA: Yeah, can we do that? 
MATT: That's what she's trying to do. 
LAURA: Oh, she's not trying to take the whole column. 
MATT: It's just a little too heavy. It's barely moving. You hear the occasional (creaking) as it's shifting ever so faintly. 
ASHLEY: Almost got it! 
TRAVIS: It's got a steel base. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to put my face in front of it. 
MATT: Okay, as you glance down towards it and make pseudo-eye contact with the formless face before you, you watch as it shifts and little faun ears and horns begin to emerge from the front of it and you see your face peering back at you with just solid eyes, no pupils or irises. 
LAURA: Cool. 
ASHLEY: Hello? 
MATT: It just looks back at you. It doesn't speak. But it follows your movement, almost like it's intently mirroring your head's position. 
ASHLEY: Do you want to come with me? 
MATT: Kind of does the nod and head turn in the same way you did. 
ASHLEY: Can you make yourself lighter? (laughter) 
MATT: Make a persuasion check. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: These are the real questions. This is the real stuff. 
ASHLEY: There it is, okay. 
TRAVIS: Clack. 
ASHLEY: 18. 
MATT: 18? No, it's a bust. (laughter) 
MATT: Nothing changes. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: It's not going to work. It's not going to work. 
MATT: All right. 
MARISHA: Would any of us notice Ashton feeling a little-- 
TALIESIN: I'm not there yet. 
MARISHA: -- funny. 
MATT: Ashton's been up in the room the whole time. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
MATT: The rest of you are downstairs while they're closed off in the-- 
SAM: Simulslice. 
TRAVIS: 500 gold. We are loaded now. I don't want to hear-- 
LAURA: So we each-- 
TRAVIS: -- shit from any of you. 
LAURA: -- personally add 500 gold to our-- 
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm. 
LIAM: Is it 500 or it's, well, we got the gems. 
MATT: 500 a piece. 
LAURA: 500 a piece. 
LIAM: Pawned. 
MATT: Then 1,000 gold worth of gems and jewelry. 
SAM: Ashton, you know-- 
LIAM: Which can't be. 
SAM: Taliesin, as always, take my 500 in your own stocks. 
TALIESIN: Already there. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: That's was very-- 
MATT: Pray to god. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to take a second to just try and run through the night again, as much as I can. 
SAM: ♪ We were running through the night ♪ 
TALIESIN: Try and track what happened where. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Since this was the room. 
TRAVIS: The first or the last? 
TALIESIN: I just want to-- while this conversation has been happening. 
MATT: Well, this was not the room-- 
TALIESIN: This wasn't the room. 
MATT: -- where it happened. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
MATT: It was-- 
TRAVIS: ♪ The room where it happened ♪ 
MARISHA: (laughs) I know. 
SAM: ♪ Run ♪ 
MATT: What you recall occurred in the floor upstairs, where you found that crate in the final moments. But you can make a perception check, if you want to. 
TALIESIN: I'll take it. 
TALIESIN: Total 
MATT: Total 19. That's-- Okay, that's really good. As you blink as they're finishing their conversation, you look around the room and you remember distinctly seeing your friends pushing through the back bookcase and pulling back books and finding nothing, and just throwing things in the sacks and satchels like it was worth anything. You remember being upstairs when everything got weird. You remember that crate. You glance over to the far side of the room, underneath a table, where the candelabras is placed on, to the left of the door. There is a dark blue carpet or a decorative tapestry that's half folded, that is draped over a wooden container approximately the same size of the one that you had gotten into that night. Different room, different place. It's hard to tell at this distance, but it has a similar shape. With a 19 perception, it catches your attention. 
TALIESIN: I look away, and I wait for this conversation to be over. 
MATT: Okay. Conversation comes to a close and she goes, "I thank you for your time, both of you. And for your diligence. Not everyone can keep a promise these days. I appreciate that." 
TALIESIN: As do I. I'll meet you outside, just one second. 
SAM: Oh, okay. Bye. (whizzing) 
TALIESIN: I apologize. I was trying to warn you. 
MATT: "It's all right." 
TALIESIN: Thank you. It's been an interesting arrangement, and I look forward to seeing you when I'm back in town. Thank you for the violin. That was-- Beautifully unsettling. 
MATT: "Good. I'm hoping to achieve such an effect, hopefully. So that is high marks in my mind." 
TALIESIN: Everyone loves to be seen. And I head my way out, shut the door. And head downstairs. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Having a mild heart attack. 
MATT: All right. You guys watch as Ashton returns to the troop, looking a bit wide-eyed and... 
TALIESIN: Are we still having trouble with the... 
SAM: Was I okay in there? Was that all right? 
TALIESIN: That went well. We'll go over notes, but well done. 
SAM: Okay, thank you. 
TALIESIN: Well done. 
SAM: Okay. How's it going down here? 
LAURA: We can't get the bust. 
LIAM: I think we're about done. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to make a quick try to just grab it and sling it. 
SAM: Is it being magically held down? 
MATT: Make a strength check. 
MARISHA: Come on. 
TALIESIN: Strength check? 
MATT: Yes. 
TALIESIN: Uh. 23. 
MATT: (as Taliesin) Uh, 23. (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Uh. (laughter) 
MATT: With just one arm, pretty much. You just (grunts) fireman's carry the-- 
ASHLEY: (gasps) 
MATT: -- the bust onto your shoulder. 
TALIESIN: We're out. 
SAM: Snap. 
TALIESIN: I start heading towards the door. 
SAM: Oh wow! That worked? 
ASHLEY: Oh, wait, is it-- do you need help? 
TALIESIN: Mine now. I'm going. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Where are you going to put it? 
MATT: The door is open as you exit. (laughter) 
MATT: As you all one by one leave the estate, the door closes (creaks) closes behind. 
MARISHA: What was that all about, FCG? 
LAURA: I don't like that woman. I just don't like her. 
SAM: I don't think I do, either. 
TALIESIN: Let's get to the gondola before we talk. 
SAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: All right. 
TALIESIN: Also, do you mind doing me a favor? 
SAM: What's up? 
TALIESIN: Once we're on the gondola? 
SAM: What's up? 
TALIESIN: Let's get to the gondola. 
SAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: We don't like-- 
SAM: I will say yes to the favor, regardless of what it is. 
TALIESIN: Sorry, having a bit of a time. 
MARISHA: I know. You look a little pale, flushed, both. I don't know. It doesn't work on me anymore. 
TALIESIN: I was curious because this is very-- I'm aware something happens, but every time someone's tried to describe it, it just gets very muddled. 
LAURA: Like there's more, something-- More light comes from your head a little bit. 
TALIESIN: Well, that's normal. Yeah, it's just this that doesn't make any sense. I don't know. 
MARISHA: You do tense your jaw. Maybe that's what it is. 
TALIESIN: Well, there's reasons for that. 
SAM: Yeah, Botox. 
MARISHA: It's very like the button. 
ASHLEY: TMJ situation. 
TRAVIS: You grind your teeth when you sleep? 
TALIESIN: Yes. 
TRAVIS: I can make you a wooden mouthpiece. It'll be easier on your-- (laughter) 
SAM: That's a great idea. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, that's supposed to help. 
LIAM: Like a mouth guard? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Try it, because I just want to show you what happens when someone made of rock puts a wooden mouth guard in their mouth. 
TRAVIS: Well, now it has to happen. 
SAM: Uh-huh, uh-huh. 
TALIESIN: No, I'm serious. 
MARISHA: Can you unhinge your jaw? 
LAURA: You're going to make that before you finish making the rest of our toys? 
TRAVIS: Listen, I can multitask. All right? Also, it's on a sliding scale of who's being nice. Okay? Yeah, that's right. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
LAURA: Gee, Chet. You're so talented. I can't. 
TRAVIS: I can't believe it. 
TALIESIN: Just get a little farther from that house. 
TRAVIS: Start whittling on the gondola. 
LAURA: In your head, Should we be worried? Do we need to... 
MATT: You all return back to the gondola. 
TALIESIN: I do not respond to the thought. 
MARISHA: Wait. What did you say? 
SAM: Should we be worried? 
MATT: A small crowd steps off the gondola. Well dressed. Kind of a perfumed smell emerges, and it is just your troop stepping into the gondola. That is one silver apiece, as well. To traverse it. 
TALIESIN: Two things. 
MARISHA: That's a lot of perfumes. 
TALIESIN: Identify Object and Detect Magic, please. 
SAM: On what? 
TALIESIN: The statue and all of us. 
SAM: Oh! Okay. 
ASHLEY: What are we doing? 
MARISHA: What's wrong? 
LAURA: What are we doing? 
SAM: They want me to Detect Magic to see if we have any magical enchantments been placed on us by maybe the violin music or something. 
LAURA: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Then also just to see what this thing here is. 
SAM: I don't know that I can necessarily detect charms or something, but let's give it a shot. 
TALIESIN: No, it'll just be-- 
SAM: I cast Detect Magic. I look around the room. 
MATT: Okay. Beyond all the various enchanted items you are all carrying, you can see all the different weak or strong auras they give off in the space, and of course, the bust that you're carrying over your shoulder gives off a very faint magical aura. Of the illusionary school, specifically. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: But nothing catches your eye in the realm of any wayward enchantments, marks, or sigils. 
SAM: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm good. 
SAM: All right. You want me to identify the bust? 
TALIESIN: If you said it's just a gentle illusionary. 
SAM: Like it has a little gentle magic on it. 
TALIESIN: Then that's fine. 
SAM: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Should we be worried? 
LAURA: Should we be worried? 
TALIESIN: How to put this? You know how some people are nice? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Well, and there's also some people who are nice because they choose to be nice. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: She chooses to be nice. So-- 
SAM: But it's not-- 
TALIESIN: Just best to help her keep choosing that. 
SAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: Is everything all right, Ashton? I don't normally see you this flustered. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I don't know. I'm just thinking a lot about the-- It's interesting to be out of this contract, and I... 
LAURA: Congratulations, by the way. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
TALIESIN: Thank you. It genuinely doesn't feel real. 
ASHLEY: Do you think it is? 
TALIESIN: N-- Ah... I don't know, there's been... There's been some things that are bothering me. I don't know. I'm having... 
LIAM: What are you worried about? 
TALIESIN: I'm having trouble remembering some things. I don't know, it's-- 
LAURA: Like what? Like? 
TALIESIN: What was I even going to grab? I haven't thought about it in so long. I don't-- 
LAURA: What are you talking about, Ashton? 
TALIESIN: I'm going to need a drink. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
SAM: Hmm? 
LAURA: I have an idea. 
SAM: What's up? 
LAURA: What if-- I mean, I know that it's deeply personal, and if it's uncomfortable for you in any way, just say so. But, yeah, FCG and I, we did a thing where it's like we can dive deeper into thoughts and memories and maybe recover something. We could try it with you. 
SAM: You'd have to be willing. 
LAURA: Yeah, and maybe if both of us are helping you at the same time, we might actually be able to help you piece things together. 
MARISHA: Do you think you forgot on purpose? Or I guess not on purpose, but you know. 
TALIESIN: I mean, it was a very complicated day. 
TRAVIS: Some Weapon X shit right there. 
TALIESIN: Are you sure you would-- Hmm. Are you sure this isn't dangerous in here? There is a lot happening in here. 
TRAVIS: It's true. 
ASHLEY: What if you guys go in there and you get lost or something? 
SAM: I don't know. 
LAURA: I've never been lost in anyone's head. 
TALIESIN: We have someone literally standing here who got lost in a water fountain. 
LAURA: Well, that's true. 
MARISHA: That was different. Water fountains can be very complicated. 
SAM: Brains are even better. 
TALIESIN: I feel like this is much more complicated! 
ASHLEY: A lot going on there. 
MARISHA: What were you going to say, Chet? 
LIAM: There's a lot more piping in there. 
LAURA: There's a lot going on in your brain, but trust me when I say that some other people have a lot going on, too, you know? 
TALIESIN: Well, I'll do what I normally do when I'm unsure. I pull out a coin and flip it. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, fuck it. 
LAURA: All right. 
SAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: I have a question that-- 
LAURA: We don't have to do it now. 
TALIESIN: Oh, thank god. I didn't want to do it now. These things make me a little sick. 
LAURA: Yeah, not here. I would definitely not want to dive that deep in it. 
TALIESIN: Although, I've always wanted to be in a fight on a gondola. We can do that sometime, right? I want to knock someone off one of these things. 
LAURA: I bet Chet would be down. 
SAM: It's just us on here. Please don't get in a fight right now. 
TALIESIN: I think that the conversation that you two had went well. 
SAM: Okay. 
LIAM: What was the conversation you two had? 
SAM: Get to that in a second. Chetney had a question. 
TRAVIS: Could you open your mouth for just a second? 
MARISHA and LAURA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Just ahh. Ahh. 
TALIESIN: Eh. 
TRAVIS: Just for a second. I just need to see your molars. 
TALIESIN: Ahh. 
TRAVIS: Ah, just for real quick. Can you say, "Fuck you?" There we go. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Got it. 
SAM: You have an overbite. 
TALIESIN: You noticed. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: That was very-- 
LIAM: God, it feels like this gondola ride's been going on forever. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Normally we take-- 
LAURA: ♪ Don't remind me ♪ 
TALIESIN: -- the carpool gondola. 
MATT: Yeah, the wind's picking up a lot. 
ASHLEY: I lift up Orym so he can see out the window. 
LAURA: Thank you, thank you. Thanks for letting us know. 
MARISHA: Where are we heading, though? 
LIAM: We're almost there. 
MARISHA: Eshteross? 
TALIESIN: Eshteross, oh god. 
MARISHA: Next? 
LAURA: Uh-huh. 
TRAVIS: We're going to carry the bust around all the way? 
LAURA: I think we can leave it at Eshteross'. I think that's a good place to leave it. 
ASHLEY: Oh, that's a great idea. 
LIAM: Actually, that a great idea. 
ASHLEY: That's a really good idea. 
LIAM: We got another night here, so let's get our errands done, and then maybe when we park our butts tonight, you guys can try that trick. 
SAM: Sure. 
LIAM: What was the conversation about? 
SAM: Conversation was about-- She seemed really interested in me. 
LAURA: Like? (laughter) 
LAURA: Sexually, or--? 
SAM: I thought so at first, but it was not true. She seems to have some sort of a-- Not a kink, just-- she's really into automatons. She said for convenience. But she seemed just extra fascinated by the way I was constructed and created. And she... 
TALIESIN: Their uniqueness. 
SAM: Yeah, she said "unique." She wanted to know where and why and how. I know, a lot of people have said that about me-- 
LAURA: You are quite unique. 
SAM: -- at this point, and I'm wondering if maybe Dancer didn't tell me everything. You know, maybe the parts that she used to put me together were-- you know, from something else. I don't know. 
LIAM: I mean, FCG, amongst the lot of us, we've done a lot of traveling. I've never met anyone like you. 
LAURA: Ever. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: Built you from other-- how do you mean? 
SAM: Well, she would salvage parts from all over the place to help construct the others. 
MARISHA: What if you were a dead person? Now their soul has been transferred inside of you, but you can't remember. 
SAM: Like you? 
MARISHA: Well, I remember. 
SAM: Oh, okay. 
TALIESIN: I think you have a kink now. Jesus. 
MARISHA: I'm a dead girl. People definitely have kinks. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: How well do you know her? Has she ever been married? She have a partner? She have any children? 
TALIESIN: I don't know. I don't know, and I don't-- 
LIAM: You have 200 equal parts-- 
TALIESIN: I'll say probably not. Probably not. Very probably not. It's not the sort of relationship we have. 
TRAVIS: I mean, was she admiring you when she looked to you at you, or was it like-- 
SAM: Yeah, but it wasn't in a... I don't know. It didn't make me feel good. It was more like a butcher inspecting a piece of meat. 
TRAVIS: Oh, she was all up on you. Like you could smell her lunch? 
SAM: I can't smell. 
TRAVIS: Damn it. 
TALIESIN: They would've been able to, yes. 
MATT: Gondola comes to rest at the bottom of the-- to the Core Spire, and as the doors open, you can see, waiting behind, a few individuals that are looking for you to exit so they can make their way further up into-- 
LAURA: That smell's not from us. That's from the people before us. 
MATT: (laughs) As you step in, you hear (sneezes). 
TALIESIN: Well, that smell's from us. (chuckling) 
MATT: You can continue your conversation, if you'd like. 
SAM: Oh, sure. I mean, yeah, she seemed real into me, and I don't know why and didn't love it, but, you know, I understand. I guess. I don't know. 
TALIESIN: How'd you-- 
SAM: What do y'all think? 
LIAM: How did you leave it with her? 
SAM: Well, she wanted me to go find others like me, or other peculiar automatons and report back to her, and if I shared that information, she would reward you with, I don't know, gold? 
LAURA: Well, that feels like if you can find other people like you, why would you want to sell them out to her, if she seems so-- 
LIAM: Grabby. 
SAM: I think you might be right. Maybe. Yeah. The way that you all treat me is wonderful. Maybe other folks should treat other automatons with more respect. 
LAURA: If we ever meet one. I mean, one like you. We've tried talking to other automatons. They're not like you, FCG. 
SAM: Well, maybe we're just not speaking their language. Maybe we're not trying hard enough. 
LAURA: Maybe. 
SAM: Or maybe there's something missing in them. A switch that needs to be flipped, or a light that needs to be added, that will turn them on. 
LAURA: All I know is that if I reach out, and you can feel it, too, I don't get the same thoughts from them that I get from you, you know? I can feel you there. I can't feel them. 
LIAM: Maybe we have to understand more about you before we can do anything about them. 
SAM: That's a good idea. It makes me also feel a little bit guilty for being mean about that horse the other day. 
LAURA: I appreciate that. I appreciate that. (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Which one? 
SAM: Heart. 
LAURA: And all of them, all of them. 
SAM: Sure, but that's the one you care about most. 
LAURA: I cared about all of them. 
SAM: Okay. 
LAURA: But yeah, Heart most of all. 
TALIESIN: What are the statistics on gondola deaths every year? (laughter) 
MARISHA: We can probably look that up. 
TALIESIN: I blanked out of this conversation like five minutes ago-- 
TRAVIS: We're going to Eshteross' place, right? 
MARISHA: Correct. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, okay. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: I don't know, maybe she wants to become you. 
SAM: Whoa, what? 
LAURA: What? 
TRAVIS: I don't know, right? She picked up the violin later in life, which was a fucking thing to say, let me tell you. 
LAURA: Oh my gosh, FCG, don't ever-- 
SAM: What, is that bad? 
LAURA: Don't ever say something like that. 
SAM: She's later in her life! 
TALIESIN: You don't actually know that. 
SAM: She's closer to death than being born. 
TRAVIS: It was the most subtle "Fuck you" right on the way in. You set the tone. 
TALIESIN: There are people out here who live for 300, 400 years. 
LAURA: Most people do not like hearing that they're close to death. 
TRAVIS: Maybe she wants to transfer her consciousness into something that'll never fade. 
SAM: You could do that? 
TRAVIS: I don't know. How do you exist? 
TALIESIN: Doesn't really strike me as-- 
SAM: You think I'm the consciousness of a dead person in-- 
MARISHA: I just said that 20 seconds ago. 
TRAVIS: Respect, I took her idea, and I made it my own. I stole your shit. You took it because I can't even do it-- Woo! 
SAM: You're a genius, Chetney! (laughter) 
LAURA: I heard you say it, I heard you say it. 
LIAM: I totally did. 
SAM: You know what? It was such a wild concept, it didn't set in. 
TRAVIS: Next time you have an idea, just tell me, and I'll make sure to filter it through. 
MARISHA: Okay, you're middle management. 
TALIESIN: I still think it's a bad idea. I haven't changed my opinion. 
SAM: He uses simple language. (laughter) 
LIAM: I thought it was pretty simple. (laughter) 
MATT: Approaching the exterior of the Eshteross estate. 
TRAVIS: Hope you're not adventurous! 
MATT: In the Core Spire. 
ASHLEY: Wait, wait, FCG! 
SAM: Yeah? 
ASHLEY: Do you know-- I don't know how to ask this question, but-- Well, do you know how long you've existed? Like how old you are? 
SAM: Dancer built me a couple years ago. I don't know the exact date. 
TALIESIN: Would you say a couple or a few? How have we not had this conversation before? 
ASHLEY: Maybe we have. How do you measure that? 
SAM: The number of days that the sun rises and sets? 
ASHLEY: You remember, okay. 
SAM: Yeah. Do I remember how long ago I started sort of experiencing her and the world? 
MATT: Yeah, I'd say it was probably maybe about four years ago? 
SAM: Four years ago, okay. 
MATT: Three to four years. That goes from your beginning consciousness to learning things about the world around you. There was a subtle period of finishing repairs. You came to consciousness before Dancer was finished. 
SAM: Mm. 
MATT: Kind of a small project. Then with each completion of construction and repair, you eventually became more useful. Then eventually, proved that you would be able to come out on various jobs with the rest of Dancer's troop. So yeah, I'd say three to four years. 
SAM: There you go. 
LAURA: And Dancer-- Dancer was not one of the people that you were with when you were attacked? 
SAM: Yes. 
LAURA: Dancer and all of the rest of-- 
SAM: Yeah, they're all gone. 
LAURA: I don't know why I thought it was a different group, and Dancer was still somewhere to be found. I'm sorry. 
ASHLEY: You know that for sure? 
SAM: I mean, yeah. Ashton came upon us and saw the bodies as well. 
TALIESIN: It was a lot. 
MARISHA: I'm glad you found a new group. 
SAM: I am, too! 
LIAM: This is a sensitive question, but do you know, do you know how she was killed? Could you tell? 
TALIESIN: You were on a job. 
SAM: Yeah, we were on a job. I mean, they all seemed to be... Eviscerated. 
LAURA: A very large, one-eyed creature. 
SAM: That's right. 
MARISHA: Beast. 
LIAM: So including Dancer was-- 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
LIAM: Eviscerated. 
ASHLEY: When you say you were on a job, what does that mean? 
SAM: We had been hired to go into a mine, I believe. 
TALIESIN: That's correct. 
SAM: I can look it up. 
TALIESIN: No, you're on. 
MATT: It was a silver mine to the east of Evishi. 
SAM: Thank you, silver mine to the east of Evishi. 
LAURA: ♪ Hey ♪ 
TRAVIS: Avicii. 
LAURA: Brother. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: About a week later-- 
TRAVIS: Good rendition. 
TALIESIN: I was paid to go find out what the fuck happened, and-- 
SAM: Came upon me and a bunch of blood. 
TALIESIN: Yes. 
ASHLEY: Who were you paid by, Ashton? 
SAM: Oh, that's right. Ashton, who paid you? 
TALIESIN: Oh god, I don't have that on me. 
SAM: It's in your file somewhere. 
TALIESIN: It's not in my file. 
TRAVIS: We're getting the bottom of it now. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah, we are. 
TALIESIN: Nobody particularly interesting. I'm trying to find, remember. 
LAURA: That you know of. 
TALIESIN: That I know of. 
LAURA: That you know of. Matt might know. It's really just-- 
TALIESIN: That's in my-- 
SAM: My group, The Division, was hired by the Rayia family. 
TALIESIN: Thank you. 
SAM: The Rayia family? 
TRAVIS: The Rayia? 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: That's right. 
SAM: Yep. But I don't know who-- Did they hire you, too? 
TALIESIN: I believe they did. 
SAM: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Yes. 
SAM: Get our story straight here. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: It's been a while. 
ALL: ♪ It's been a while ♪ 
SAM: What? 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
LAURA: The Rayia Family, were they here in town? 
TALIESIN: Yes. 
SAM: No. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: No? 
SAM: Well, I don't know, wait, no. 
MATT: No, the Rayia family was in Evishi. They were the ones that-- 
SAM: In Evishi, okay. 
MATT: They ran the mine that was being overrun. So they hired your troop to clear out the mine from the indigenous creatures that holed up in there. 
SAM: It was infested with all sorts of giant creatures. 
LAURA: And were the creatures cleared out? 
SAM: No, we didn't. It was harder than we expected when we got into the mines. 
LAURA: Uh-huh. 
SAM: We retreated back to rest, recuperate, heal. I did a lot of healing that day. Everyone was busted up real bad. And that was it. In the night when we were resting, I don't know who was on watch, but I was shut down, and that's when they were taken out. 
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: Why were you shut down? 
SAM: Just resting. 
LAURA: Sleeping? 
ASHLEY: Did someone shut you down, or did you do it yourself? 
SAM: No, no, I mean, I was asleep. I was in stasis mode. 
TRAVIS: He always does it. 
ASHLEY: Oh, okay. 
LIAM: Well, that statue's got to be heavy. (laughter) 
SAM: Jesus. 
TALIESIN: I literally can barely feel it. It's as if it isn't there. 
LAURA: You're so strong, Ashton. 
MARISHA: I should have you carry me around all the time. 
TRAVIS: Eshteross, oh my god, open up. (laughter) 
SAM: Thank you. 
TALIESIN: I would literally not feel it. 
LIAM: I could carry you around. 
MATT: The door opens ever so slightly. 
LAURA: I could carry you around. 
MATT: And Evelyn stands there. "Hello? Are you here to see the master?" 
TRAVIS: Yeah, we brought a statue. 
MATT: "Very well, he is-- Well, perhaps he'll speak with you. Come with me." She opens the door and looks past you, carefully. 
MARISHA: Are you all right? 
LAURA: What's going on? 
MARISHA: You seem on edge. 
LAURA: It's just us. 
MATT: "Just looking out for-- Make sure you're not being followed. General protocol for the lord." (clicks) Closes the door. (laughter) 
MARISHA: For the lord? 
MATT: Not the Lord. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Oh wow. 
TRAVIS: Speak through me! 
MATT: Evelyn, extremely religious. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Stormlord. 
SAM: (deeply) Hello, Evelyn. (laughter) 
SAM: (deeply) It's me, the Lord. 
LIAM: (Irish accent) If you didn't do it for the Lord, who would you do it for? (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
MATT: Rocks fall. Everyone dies. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Jrusar random rock fall? 
MATT: No. You move past the study where you first encountered and fought Lord Eshteross. Further down the hall past it, you can see there's a partially opened door. You can hear a sound. (thump) (grunts) 
LAURA: Training? Or having sex? 
MARISHA: Or both? 
MATT: Within the next room, there is a small, somewhat circular-shaped chamber. You can see there are weapon racks on different walls situated with spears and halberds and all that stuff. You can see in the middle of it, there is a small, circular sand pit. There are two wooden combat dummies, essentially, in the center, these long, wooden pillars that have all these off-shoots to them. They have all these dings and gashes in them. Some of them have been wrapped in hard leather that are themselves wrecked with all sort of manner of blows and wounds that have carved across them. You see off to the side and behind it, just the low lantern light of an oil lantern that's hung on the wall to the left, you see Lord Ariks Eshteross wearing just a sleeveless vest and his dress pants. It feels almost incongruent. With no shoes and his arms wrapped, just beads of sweat all across the forehead and dripping off the side as he's just punching the sides of this wooden test dummy repeatedly, over and over again for about the next 20 or so seconds before he (coughs) Stops for a second and (heavy breathing) and notices you all to the side. 
LAURA: (claps) 
MATT: "Oh, oh." 
TRAVIS: Are you applauding? 
LAURA: Yeah, it looked good. (laughs) 
MATT: "That's extremely awkward, don't." 
TRAVIS: (laughs) Jesus. 
MATT: "I admire--" 
ASHLEY: Impressive. 
MATT: "I apologize. I was not expecting you here." Goes and grabs a towel off a small rack to the other side of the chamber, and begins wiping his face down, and gets his robe and puts it on. "It is good to see that you have all stayed alive. That is a positive thing, I think. (coughs)" 
LAURA: You all right? 
MATT: "Just catching my breath. What can I do for you?" 
LIAM: Well, we brought you something. 
TALIESIN: To start with, yeah. Do you have a pedestal or something? 
LAURA: Yeah, we have a present. 
SAM: A spare pedestal. 
LAURA: I mean, technically it belongs to Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Preference is storage, if you don't mind. But you can use it. 
MATT: "You brought this?" 
LAURA: Maybe on your mantle in the other room. That would be a really nice-- 
TALIESIN: Somewhere more private if you-- 
ASHLEY: Here, look, look, look. Look into the statue. 
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm going to have to roll it. Oh, that's not okay. Okay. 
MATT: You pull it down. He goes over and helps hold the bottom of it and glances at it, and you watch as the plain visage of the bust begins to shift into the intense and strong-tusked jaw of Eshteross. Withdraws a bit. "That is extremely creepy. We will place it in my study facing the wall." 
MARISHA: Maybe he could put it-- 
TALIESIN: Good call. 
MARISHA: -- on top of your training dummy so it's like you're fighting-- 
LAURA: It's staring at you. 
MARISHA: -- yourself and your inner demons as you train for sex. 
ASHLEY: It's, oh-- (laughter) 
LAURA: It's like therapy in a way. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
LIAM: Is that what you think this room is? 
TALIESIN: Who's rubbing off on who here? 
MATT: "It has been--" 
MARISHA: Look at it. There are weapons on the wall. 
MATT: "-- nearly two weeks, and I had forgotten how extremely strange you are." (laughter) 
MATT: "But indeed, there is much to get you up to speed on. Set that there." He walks over to it and turns it to make sure it's facing the wall. Takes his towel and throws it over it. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: You might want to have it looked at. 
MATT: "Anyway. Come into my-- Into my study, please." 
SAM: Before we leave the room-- 
LAURA: You saw those pecs before he put his robe on. 
SAM: Before we leave the room, I'm just going to go up to the training wooden dummy and just say, hello? Are you a-- Are you a person? Are you a thing? Hello, can you hear me? 
MATT: No response. 
SAM: Okay. I'll keep trying. 
TALIESIN: Roll a persuasion check. (laughter) 
MARISHA: He just glanced to the side. 
MATT: Eshteross walks past you to the front door, reaches over to one of the racks on the side, and you can see there's these raggedy-looking spears. There's some staves. You can see an awesome quarterstaff. There is some beautiful, curved, silver scythe, with this thin, long, curved blade. He reaches up and grabs it and says, "We're done." You watch as it (swooshes) shifts and transforms into the silver ball-topped cane-- 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: -- that he carries with him. 
MATT: What! 
MARISHA: A scythe? 
LIAM: That's cool. 
TRAVIS: Hot. 
LAURA: Do you train with all of the weapons in here, or? 
MATT: "Depends on the day of the week." 
TALIESIN: Holy shit. 
MATT: "It is important to be ready for anything." 
ASHLEY: Sir. (laughter) 
LAURA: How old are you? 
MATT: "Come. Walk with me." 
LAURA: Just trying to share just for reference. 
LIAM: We just scolded FCG for doing that. 
LAURA: I know, I know, you're right. I'm sorry. 
TRAVIS: You fucking son of a bitch. (laughter) 
MATT: "I'm old enough to be accomplished in these weapons, and not quite old enough to be retiring them." 
TALIESIN: Accomplished, yet not retired. 
LAURA: Yes. 
MATT: "Thank you." He keeps walking with the heavy-- 
LAURA: It wasn't an insult. 
MATT: Sound of the cane leading forward-- 
SAM: Seems very similar. 
MATT: -- into the study. (laughter) 
MATT: As you follow in after him, he goes and walks towards his chair that was facing the fireplace. Scoots it a bit to the side and (groans) sits down. Sets the cane across his lap, and looks back at the rest of you. "Some interesting movement has transpired in your absence. Some of it, you may be keenly interested to hear about. Evelyn, if you could close the door." (clicks) As he leans forward-- We're going to take a break. (groaning) 
TRAVIS: You son of a bitch! 
MATT: Partially because we're over an hour and a half, and we have to change these-- These batteries to hear Ashley for the second half of the game. 
LAURA: We love you, Ashley! 
ASHLEY: Thanks, friends. 
MATT: Of course. So yeah, we'll pick up at the start of this next conversation with Eshteross in just a few minutes. Hang tight, and we'll see you guys here in a little bit. (cheering) 

Break[]
LAURA: Hey Critters, Laura Bailey here to guide you through what's new in the "Critical Role" shop. (animal growling) (upbeat old-fashioned music) Style should never be a dump stat, darling. You need this? You probably need this. The cuteness, it's overpowering. It's so cute, I can't handle it. Glorious! I mean, the Traveler always says impulse purchases are a good decision. (mouse clicks) And hey, if you want, you could head over to the "Critical Role" shop right now. 
(solemn music) 
'Cause my nipples are not gonna come out. Okay, so aim for this. Yes, this is the- That's the bad side. Tonight on "Four Sided Dive". The other right. (group laughing) Did you get it? You got it! Ow! (Taliesin laughing maniacally) Get off me! Oh my god, they're so sticky. Because pie means vagina too, guys. (Laura laughing) Taliesin, you have a question for me? No, other than why. 
SAM: ♪ One by one we roll the dice, Come on, Let's go Critical Role ♪ ♪ Pour another round, Your friends are here to cheer you on ♪ ♪ Throw it back, It's good times all night long ♪ ♪ Let's roll Critical Role ♪ ♪ No way to lose when you're having this much fun ♪ ♪ No way to lose ♪ ♪ No way to lose when you're having this much fun ♪ 
STEPHEN: So I find a pebble or something like that, or a small stone, and I (whistles) Can I whip it at the back of-- Who's farthest away? 
MATT: Furthest away would be a small muscular female figure with short dark hair, wraps on her hands, who's in the process of warming her hands in the fire. 
STEPHEN: Whip it at her and see, just whip it. I'm not looking to do damage, I'm looking just to get her attention. 
STEPHEN: 21. 
MATT: 21. Bing, a pebble hits you right between the eyes. 
MARISHA: Ow! 
ASHLEY: What happened? 
MARISHA: Ow! 
SAM: Are you okay, what happened? 
MARISHA: You messing with me? That was you, wasn't it? 
SAM: That wasn't me this time, I swear. 
ASHLEY: What are you throwing things at her for? I didn't do anything. 
SAM: If I wanted to play a prank, you would know I would play a prank. 
(playful music) (typewriter clicking) (dreamy music) 
Oh, hey everyone. It's me, Jester. So the Traveler and I were going to tell you guys all about subscribing to Twitch, but it sort of seems like he's not really here right now, which is so stupid. Traveler! Traveler! (mysterious music) Arty! (Jester groans) You know what, it's fine. I can do it by myself. With myself. (snickers) I invoke Duplicity. Oh, hello Jester. Hi Jester. Okay, so what we're going to do today is tell the people at home all about the good stuff they get when subscribing to Twitch. Oh, I dunno what Twitch is, but that sounds good, let's go. No, that's perfect. 'Cause this works for you too then. Okay, so there's a professionally-moderated live chat. And if you subscribe, you can post links in the chat. (gasps) Like a link to a cool hamster video? Exactly like that. So what we do here is tell really cool stories, right? And sometimes crazy shit happens when we're telling those stories and people that subscribe get special emotes so you can express how you feel. What if you live on the side of Exandria where it's really late and you're like, I'm just gonna close my eyes for a few seconds. And then it's two hours and the music is playing and you're like, oh no, I missed the whole show. Oh no, that's a great question. Well, if you subscribe to Twitch, then you can just watch all of our VODs as soon as the live broadcast ends. So cool, right? So cool. I know. Another really cool thing is you can gift subscriptions to people, like I could buy a subscription for you duplicate Jester, and for other- What are you doing? Look what I found. Oh my gosh, my brushes. I could draw a dick. Oh, well, technically that might break Twitch's terms of service. Oh. But there's no rule against drawing chubby little snakes. Yeah, or a really long balloon sword. Yeah, or like a really thick rope with two hunky knots at the end of it. A cucumber with two tomatoes. A banana sitting next to an onion and another mushroom. With a little cat on it. A long dog with just two feet. Artie, where are you? Should we go look for him? Yeah, sure, why not? Oh, don't forget to subscribe to "Critical Role." Okay, let's go. Okay. 

Part II[]
MATT: And welcome back. So, as you all have gathered here in the familiar study of Eshteross, he has finished his afternoon exercise routine. Sits down, in his room uponce, turning towards you all in his high-back chair, leans forward. "Interesting times since you left. It seems Lady Emoth's capture and subsequent interrogation has pinpointed our friend, Armand Treshi, as a conspirator. The other three masters of the Mahaan House Treshi pulled back their support from Armand. Orlana Seshadri has personally taken charge of this investigation, and his push for Paragon's Call's instatement within the city has been put on hold--" 
SAM: Ooh! 
MATT: "-- during the inquiry into his business practices. However, Armand's home has been cleaned out and Armand has since gone missing these past four days." 
MARISHA: Oh shit! 
MATT: "But thanks to your successful mission at the ball, I was able to track his movements through the city." He reaches down the side of the chair and pulls up this small, somewhat cloudy crystal with a base on it and holds it in his hand. "It seems we've found his movements watching him smuggled out of Jrusar, heading southeast, likely out of the Wilds." 
MARISHA: Southeast. 
MATT: "In pooling some of my contacts at the Elder's Post, it seems he's off to Bassuras in a hurry." 
SAM: Bassuras. 
MATT: "Which is also the home of Paragon's Call." 
SAM: I don't see it on here! 
MARISHA: Oh. Where? Yeah, it's not on here. 
TRAVIS: It's hard, isn't it? That job's sucks. 
MARISHA: Does Bassuras has two S's? 
MATT: "It does." 
MARISHA: But okay-- well, whatever. 
TRAVIS: Only you read your notes. 
MARISHA: Bassuras-- that's true. 
MATT: "Now time is of the essence if we are to try and find him before he vanishes entirely off-continent. Unfortunately, this device has a limitation to the proximity. Once he left the city, I lost my tracking. But if this were brought to Bassuras while he's still there, it should lead it to you. So I ask you, as our business had previously concluded, are you interested in pursuing this and to continue this thread, or should I look for other employment?" 
TRAVIS: Yeah! 
MARISHA: Yeah, let's get him. Fuck this guy! 
TRAVIS: Sorry, let us confer-- 
MARISHA: Oh, right. 
TRAVIS: -- amongst ourselves but for a moment. 
MARISHA: Fuck this guy! 
ASHLEY: Yeah, we got to finish this. 
SAM: I mean, that's in the area where all my shit happened, too. 
LAURA: Oh wow. 
SAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Bassuras? 
SAM: Yeah. Yeah, we were hired out of Bassuras, or out of-- 
LAURA: Evishi. 
SAM: No, out of Bassuras. 
LAURA: Evishi. 
SAM: To go to Evishi, which is nearby. I think. 
TRAVIS: Orym, you look apprehensive. 
LIAM: How far from here? 
MATT: "On main roads, Bassuras is about nearly 900 miles to the southeast of here." 
SAM: Good god! 
MATT: "It is a lengthy journey through the Hellcatch Valley. The broken ravines to the badlands there. But if you indeed wish to take this endeavor, I can offer a better means of travel, as it seems my skyship has returned from its journey to Whitestone." 
SAM: A skyship. 
MARISHA: Oh, oh. 
TRAVIS: We can steal it. 
SAM: That's very sad. 
MARISHA: What-- 
SAM: But in the sky! 
MARISHA: Wow, that's great! Was Bertrand's delivered successfully? 
MATT: "Actually, there was a letter that was given to me." 
TRAVIS: Oh, shit! 
MATT: "To bring over to you." 
MARISHA: Whoa! 
MATT: "Somebody take it." 
SAM: Which one of us can read? 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: What do you mean? I can read, but obviously I'll give it one of you. Fine materials. 
MARISHA: Who is this from? What is this? What is happening? 
ASHLEY: Keep it, keep it. I'm going to keep the ribbon. 
TRAVIS: You're going to keep it? 
ASHLEY: Yes, I'm going to tie it around my wrist. Thank you. 
MATT: Okay. You can add a ribbon to your inventory. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MARISHA: You know, I just feel like. 
SAM: You can't read it? 
MARISHA: Imogen-- no. She's just such a better dictator. Or a-- 
TRAVIS: Dictator? 
LAURA: Dictator? 
MATT: (laughs) 
LAURA: Orator? (laughter) 
LIAM: Your Freudian slip-- 
TRAVIS: Such a good authoritarian-- 
LIAM: Your Freudian slip is showing. 
TALIESIN: I was going to say, can we say Freudian in Exandria? 
LIAM: Your Freudian slip is showing. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: It's not really-- you know what I mean. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
TRAVIS: What does it say, Imogen? 
LAURA: It says-- 
TRAVIS: You're keeping us in suspense! 
LAURA: (clears throat) 
TALIESIN: Wow, really? 
LAURA: I don't know how I should read this. 
TRAVIS: Well, in your natural voice and not another one. That's for sure. 
LAURA: Right? I shouldn't read it in a voice that's taken over my body. 
MARISHA: Just, um-- 
SAM: What is up with this letter? 
MARISHA: Just do some sort of interpretive-- How do you think this? 
LAURA: How I would imagine she would sound. 
MARISHA: Sure! Just for, you know-- 
SAM: Oh! She? Who's she? 
LAURA: That's really amazing right there. Okay. I'm just imagining this is what she would sound like. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to die! 
LIAM: How are you with voices? 
LAURA: I don't know. We'll find out. 
LIAM: Okay. 
SAM: I'll cast Guidance. 
LAURA: Thank you. (as Vex'ahlia) I'm ever appreciative for delivering our friend across the sea to us for proper remembrance and burial. We are deeply saddened at Bertrand's passing, and thank you for being compatriots of his until his honored end. He was a man of deep integrity, courageous heart, and boundless generosity. You have my gratitude and the gratitude of the entire chamber of Whitestone, darling. Vex'ahlia de Rolo, Lady Vex'ahlia de Rolo, Baroness of the First House of Whitestone, Grand Mistress of the Grey Hunt, Coinmistress of the Council of Tal'Dorei. (Imogen) You know, that sounds pretty impressive, actually, that entire thing. 
TRAVIS: She sounds loaded. 
TALIESIN: She sounds kind of pricky, to be frank. 
LAURA: Wow. 
TRAVIS: She sounds like kind of a snob. 
LAURA: She seems really important. 
SAM: She seems cool. 
LIAM: That's actually not that far from how she sounds. 
TRAVIS: You know her?! 
LAURA: (gasps) 
TALIESIN: Bullshit. 
SAM: You've met her? 
LIAM: I've seen her. I've heard her. 
LAURA: Wow! 
MARISHA: You used to run with some pretty established, high-powered people. 
TALIESIN: Do we have a new Dorian? This is-- 
LIAM: I stood in the corner. 
SAM: Wow, with Lady Vax'ahlia? 
TALIESIN: Say the whole thing. The whole thing. 
SAM: Lady Vax'ahlia, Mistress of the Grey Hunt, and the Second House of Whitestone's-- 
TRAVIS: First House! 
SAM: -- Corn Master? 
TALIESIN: My god! 
MARISHA: Corn Master? 
TALIESIN: Corn Master. 
LIAM: There's something like 17 more names, too. 
TRAVIS: Coppertop Corn Master. Corn Masher. 
SAM: Okay, wait, refresh me. She's in Whitestone? I thought, wait, where did we send his? 
LAURA: We sent Bertrand to Whitestone. 
SAM: To Whitestone on the same airship that took Dorian, too? 
LAURA: No, no, no, a different airship. 
SAM: Two airships? Left the train station at the same time. 
LAURA: Different times. Dorian left long after Bertrand did. 
SAM: Oh, that's right. They were different episodes. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: That's okay, I was a little confused, too. 
SAM: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Very good handwriting. 
LAURA: How much does an airship normally cost to travel with? To hire one, or? 
MATT: "I'm actually uncertain. This was part of the Prudaj's estate when I acquired it. So this was previously owned by the mistress before." 
SAM: But you pay to maintain it, or the estate pays to maintain it? 
MATT: "Indeed, to keep it up. To pay the crew atop it." 
LAURA: Wow. 
SAM: What is it used for normally when you're not using it for personal business? 
TRAVIS: Black Ops. 
MATT: "No, it is primarily used for personal business. For the various textiles that are delivered. We also rent space out to other businesses. Pardon me. That require the very limited skyship space and traversing different continents and with rapid turn around." 
SAM: And you're saying we could use this to travel to Bassuras? 
MATT: "I don't..." He pulls out a small booklet and looks it over and fits his glasses. "I'm about a month before our next shipment is to be put out, so there is about four weeks in which it would be remaining in the sky port unused." 
SAM: We get our own skyship. 
LAURA: Have you ever sent your skyship to Yios? 
MATT: "It has gone there before, yes." 
LAURA: Is it a long journey? 
MATT: "It's a bit further than Bassuras. Straight shot without using the roads. It's about 700 miles to Bassuras from here, and you'll take no more than maybe four or five days. To Yios, maybe, three-- maybe three days beyond that even further." 
LAURA: Wow. 
SAM: Whoa. 
LIAM: Roughly the same direction, or--? 
MATT: "Roughly. A bit more south, southeastern, I'd guess." 
LAURA: Maybe after, if we do this for him, he'd allow us access? 
LIAM: And a crew would pilot? 
MATT: "A bare-bones crew, as this is not a paid endeavor." 
TRAVIS: It'd be much safer. I mean, nothing can attack you in the sky. (laughter) 
SAM: That's true. 
TRAVIS: You have allergies? 
MATT: He sits up for a second. Grabs his cane, walks across the room, bit of that hunch to his lower back, looks at one of the upper shelves across a bunch of books, and pushes past and takes a couple of things down and sets them aside, then (grunts) reaches up and pulls back a bunch of these large rolls of paper, and pushes them a bit in his arm, pulls on out, and just (grunts). Here we go. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
TRAVIS: Oh! Yes! 
SAM: Is this an upgraded map? 
LAURA: Upgrade, upgrade, upgrade! 
MARISHA: Zoomed out map? (mic thumps) 
LAURA: Oops, I'm sorry. Oops. Little-- 
TRAVIS: Ah, it's gorgeous! 
LAURA: Oh my gosh! 
TRAVIS: Bassuras! Look at the zoom in! 
LAURA: Okay, so-- 
MARISHA: Bassuras. 
SAM: But wait a second. 
LAURA: The Rift. 
SAM: How's this sync up to this? 
LAURA: Right away, I want to go to there. 
LIAM: The Oderan Wilds are all the way up there. 
TRAVIS: Guys, there's notes on it. 
SAM: How does this sync up to this? 
LAURA: Is this your own personal map? 
LIAM: This is where we are now. Look at this little Oderan Wilds. 
SAM: Hold on. 
MARISHA: Help, Fresh Cut Grass. 
ASHLEY: Send me a picture. 
LAURA: Yeah, oh, yeah! I'll do it. 
ASHLEY: No rush, no rush. Just look at it and figure it out. 
MARISHA: What-- 
LAURA: I'm going to send it to you, Ashley. 
SAM: How does this work? 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
SAM: How does this link? This looks like water. That's a mountain. That doesn't link up. How does this--? 
MATT: "This corner goes there." 
SAM: Ah! 
TALIESIN: Oh, well. 
TRAVIS: You've never linked up maps? 
LIAM: The same scale? 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: "These are different cartographers. The scale is not--" 
LAURA: I sent it to freaking live photo again. 
MATT: "My apologies." 
SAM: Okay, we're up there. All the way to Bassuras. 
MARISHA: Look at this thing called the Dead Man's Crater. 
LAURA: I know! 
MARISHA: That looks fun. 
LAURA: The Drowned Sea? 
ASHLEY: Whoa! 
SAM: Rejarma? 
LAURA: Hey, oh, Taloned Highlands, that's where I'm from! 
TRAVIS: Oh, look! A red X! 
MARISHA: (gasps) 
SAM: Wait, what do those-- 
MARISHA: -- red marks mean? 
SAM: And there's triangles! 
TRAVIS: I know what that means. 
LAURA: What does this mean? 
TRAVIS: You left a body there. 
LAURA: Oh lord, please tell us! 
SAM: I always wear my Rejarmas to bed. 
MATT: "The Hellcatch Valley is one of the various lands that was heavily scarred in the Calamity. Much of its broken, dust-filled badlands are prone to sinkholes outside the various ravines that you see often." 
LIAM: That's it, known sinkholes! 
LAURA: Nope, nope. Oh no, sinkholes. 
LIAM: That's not heavy enough. Try combing these know sinkholes. 
LAURA: You almost cracked them, bro! 
LIAM: No, don't do that with those. 
MARISHA: They have to be. 
SAM: Just use all of Ashley's shit. 
LAURA: We did have weights. 
LAURA: We've lost them. 
TALIESIN: Here, let me give you a hand. 
LAURA: Yeah, hey! (laughter) 
MATT: Asshole. 
TRAVIS: Where's the thumb, you dick? 
LAURA: Yeah, you broke it, Ashton. 
SAM: Is it even showing up on camera? 
TALIESIN: There we are. Ah! 
TRAVIS: At least it was getting put to good use. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, no. Keeping me comfy. 
LIAM: And Yios is in which direction? 
MATT: Yios is in Aeshanadoor, which is further southeast. 
SAM and MARISHA: ♪ Aeshanadoor ♪ 
LAURA: Look. 
TALIESIN: This is so silly. 
LAURA: So we're heading here. 
TALIESIN: We're the thumb. 
ASHLEY: Ferry? 
SAM: Wait, did we ask what the triangles are? 
LAURA: Yeah, they're sinkholes. They're known sinkholes. 
SAM: Sinkholes? What does that mean? 
MARISHA: What is the X? 
SAM: Is that a thing that people worry about? 
LAURA: Maybe this is a scary sinkhole. 
MATT: "There are some regions there that just fall into the subterranean tunnels that go deep, deep beneath the lands." 
SAM: Subterranean tunnels that run across this whole land? 
MATT: "That's why regions here are called the Hungry Valley. It sometimes opens up." 
SAM: Do you know what's down below? 
MATT: "I'm not a person well- traveled in that vicinity, but as far as I know there are various individuals that are studying such a thing." 
SAM: Wow. Okay, so Treshi fled to Bassuras. If we go there and arrest him, kill him, what's the ask? 
MATT: "I would recommend arresting him. Bring him back to deal with the justice that awaits him in Jrusar." 
MARISHA: What if he accidentally dies? 
MATT: "Then bring his body back." 
SAM: Is there something that-- The Greesnsleeves, were they called? 
LAURA: Seekers, the Green Seekers. 
SAM: Green Seekers would be interested in? 
TRAVIS: Green Sack. 
SAM: Is this part of their deal? I forget what their mission was. 
LAURA: I know, they were hired. 
LIAM: They were hired. 
LAURA: They probably know about all this. I mean, they've been in town, you know? 
MATT: "I'm certain Seshadri has put them on this same trail, but I have no idea what their business and/or travel has placed them on. If they're still within the city, or if they have the same information that I do." 
LAURA: All right. 
TRAVIS: They probably need to be rescued. 
LAURA: This is so exciting. 
MARISHA: We are technically deputies. 
TRAVIS: We're in, by the way. We're not hiding it very well, but this is definitely something we're interested in. 
MATT: "Very well." 
LAURA: Yes, but-- 
MATT: "I would not want to assume, but--" 
LIAM: No, I don't like leaving loose ends. We have some pretty concrete details for Treshi, so let's wrap it up and then we go on from there. 
MATT: "If indeed, if you can conclude this with enough time that it's not an issue with our coming shipping schedule, that the next month the ship could take you to Yios if that is where you are seeking as well." 
LAURA: That would be wonderful. 
MATT: "So will you be trying to ford the valley on foot? It's a long way and quite treacherous." 
LAURA: Looks like it. 
TRAVIS: Sounds awesome. 
MARISHA: I agree. 
LAURA: But I do want to-- What is The Rift? 
MARISHA: What is the Dead Man's Crater? 
MATT: "I know not what the Crater is." 
TRAVIS: Whose map was this? 
MATT: "This was a map that I acquired from a traveling merchant. I have, you know, spent some time passing through the valley before, but I like to make sure that I'm up to date with, well, sinkholes as best that I can be, but mostly just to know where things are." 
ASHLEY: What is the Troll Ferry? Is that a ferry that's moved by a bunch of trolls? 
SAM: Where's that? 
LAURA: The Troll Ferry? 
MATT: "It was a-- It's in the upper left part." 
LAURA: Oh. 
SAM: Oh. 
ASHLEY: Very hidden and I got excited when I saw it. 
MATT: "If you'd like to make a stop on the way out, you could probably convince Captain Xandis to take you there." 
SAM: Captain Xandis. 
TRAVIS: Xandis. 
MARISHA: Captain Xandis. 
ASHLEY: Xandis. 
MATT: "She's the captain of the Silver Sun. My skyship." 
LAURA: The Silver Sun, that's a beautiful-- wait. Secondsun. That was what Dorian's name-- Silver Sun. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: Captain, what? Xandis? 
TRAVIS: Xandis. 
LIAM: Gosh, but I do love a good map. 
TALIESIN: Huh. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: "Look, success or failure of this endeavor, the ship will take you where you need to go in Marquet for the time that's required for us to see through our business together. I'm not using it in the interim, and you've done enough for me. I think it's the least I could do." 
LIAM: It's an extremely generous gift. 
LAURA: Yeah, thank you. 
TRAVIS: These are-- Oh, sorry-- 
MARISHA: No, you go ahead. 
TRAVIS: No, no, it's you. 
MARISHA: I was just going to see if we could take your little crystal ball? 
MATT: "Yes, yes, my apologies." 
MARISHA: When we get-- Oh really, oh! 
MATT: "If indeed he is still within Bassuras when you get there--" 
LAURA: Witchy, very witchy. 
MATT: " -- that should at least--" 
LAURA: Maybe you could read our fortunes. 
MATT: "-- give you an inkling of his proximity, the direction of where he would be. You'll know if you look at the sphere and you follow a bright white glow within it. Wherever you hold the sphere, the glow will be in the direction of Armand. But you have to be within a couple of miles." 
LAURA: Ah, all right. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: That's pretty good. 
LIAM: So we have to get to Bassúras-- Am I saying that right? 
MATT: "Yes." 
LIAM: As fast as we can in hopes that we pick up a ping. Get his trail once we arrive. 
MATT: "If that does not happen, either he has not made it there yet, or he's already moved on. Ask around. See if anybody has seen an individual like Armand, or if anybody has had business with him. Either he's expected--" 
TRAVIS: We've got to look at the crystal while we're flying. 
LAURA: I mean, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Just like buzz over him and it's like (whoop). 
MATT: "Indeed." 
TRAVIS: Then you'd have to jump out. 
MATT: "I would not recommend that." 
TRAVIS: They don't-- these don't land. 
LAURA: I think they have to land. 
SAM: They said in four days. 
MARISHA: Oh, since he fled? 
SAM: Oh, since he fled? No, no, that's how long it would take to get there. How long ago did he leave town? 
MATT: "We're uncertain where he left in particular. I lost direction or sight on him about a week ago." 
LAURA: Oh jeez louise. So he could've gone on foot, or do you think he's been on an airship? You don't know. 
MATT: "I do not know the means in which he was smuggled out of the city. I do not know with him losing access to his family's estate if he would be able to... Well. I don't know if the skyship has left in the recent days towards the direction of Bassuras. Not many skyships stop there. Most of the trade is through caravanserais and others of travel." 
LAURA: How do you know that's where he's heading? 
MATT: "My contacts in the Elder's Post said that was where he was looking to go." 
LAURA: Got it. 
MATT: "When he acquired passage out of the city." 
TRAVIS: Do we all know what the Elder's Post is, except for me? 
LAURA: Uh-huh. 
MARISHA: It sounds like it is a post... 
TRAVIS: What is the Elder's Post, Lord Eshteross? 
ASHLEY: -- learned about this before? 
MATT: "The Elder's Post is an underground market in the Lantern Spire." 
LAURA: Yes. That's where it is. 
ASHLEY: Sounds so familiar. 
TRAVIS: Thank you. 
LAURA: I imagine, Laudna-- I mean, out of character, we've traveled through this because this is the direction we came. 
MATT: Yeah, you've been-- 
LAURA: We had to come from Taloned Highlands up through to get to Jrusar. 
MATT: You'd have some familiarity with the valley, thought you didn't probably travel just the two of you, points of it, probably for safety reasons and for not having a lot of experience in this space, traveled with caravans that were already passing through and for a little bit of money, allowed you to come along and sit in there a bit. 
MARISHA: Exciting, though. 
TRAVIS: In the last, since all this shakeup has happened, I do want to try and find Ajit Dayal at the Dayal Hall. 
MATT: "I am familiar with the Dayal Hall, yes." 
TRAVIS: Has he been involved in any way or anything, any rumors about the Dayal Hall? Mahaan House? 
MATT: "Not that I'm aware of. They're primarily a family house focused in education." 
TRAVIS: Mm. Oh yes, he was at the ball with Professor Greers. 
MARISHA: Oh yes. 
TRAVIS: They were searching-- The shade creepers, they were in his room. 
MARISHA: That's right. I liked him. 
MARISHA: Which one, Ajit or Professor Greers? 
MARISHA: Professor Gryz. 
TRAVIS: Did we meet him? 
SAM: He was a goblin. 
TRAVIS: I remember. 
MATT: "Indeed, it seems like a number of rooms were impacted during the ball." 
MARISHA: A number? Oh, oh! 
TRAVIS: Do you happen to know which rooms in particular? There could be a connection! 
MATT: "I do not." 
TRAVIS: Oh, shame. 
MATT: "From what I've heard, the investigation has been, as I mentioned before, taken over by Seshadri." 
TRAVIS: The Dayal Hall is located on which spire? 
MATT: "That would be here on the Core Spire." 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MATT: "You may have noticed there is a series of tall, sandstone arches that sits, and looks like an arrangement of three large, stout towers, open air, coliseum-like." You've past by it without paying much mind. It's just one the various structures that you had no personal point of interest necessarily to inspect, but as soon as he starts mentioning it, you're like, I feel like we've walked past that a number of times. 
TRAVIS: Oh sure, sandstone, it all just blends together. Now, if you make that shit out of wood, people stop and stare. Go ahead. 
MATT: "That would be the Dayal Hall." 
TRAVIS: Excellent! 
SAM: How soon can the skyship be prepared to leave? 
MATT: "I would say at least give me until tomorrow to let them know of your interest, and they can get their materials to shove out, and make sure they have food and tools and everything they need on the journey and give you time to prepare as well." 
LIAM: Is there anything that you recommend, any way we prepare, anything we should bring for Bassuras and beyond? 
MATT: "I would say maybe... grab a ragged cloak. Try not to stand out too much." 
LAURA: (chuckles) We're not very good at that. 
TALIESIN: I think I've got plenty. 
LIAM: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Is Bassuras like a rougher place, or is there some wealth in the town? 
MATT: "(chuckles)" 
TALIESIN: It's... It's kind of a shithole. 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
MARISHA: Have you been? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Oh, that's right! We keep going back and forth with this shit. 
TRAVIS: It's okay. You were dead once. It's all right. 
LAURA: Is that where you're from? 
TALIESIN: Kind of. I haven't been there in decades. 
SAM: I don't think I've-- It doesn't say that I was there. It just says that we worked in Evishi near Bassuras. So I don't know that we were ever in Bassuras. 
TALIESIN: I haven't been there in a very long time. 
MATT: You have been. 
TALIESIN: It was a shithole then. It's probably a shithole now. 
SAM: I have been, okay. Okay. I've been there; I remember it well! 
MATT: I'll send you all the stuff again, no worries. 
SAM: Thank you! 
TRAVIS: Oh, you have been. 
SAM: I have been. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "There are a number of various smaller governments that rule over different-- look over different portions of the valley. Bassuras is one of the largest trade centers, as it does tend to be a pass-through for many of the various other regions of Marquet. It is also a... 'Lawless' isn't the right term. The local military likes to keep things fluid when it comes to law. There are many factions that like to think that they're in charge." 
MARISHA: Would that be the Paragon's Call? 
MATT: "They're one of them." 
MARISHA: They're just one of them. 
MATT: "They have grown their influence in other regions of Marquet and as such, have lost favor with some of the other factions in Bassuras. Just watch your coin purse, and if someone looks shifty, it's because they are. It's a dangerous place." 
SAM: I have been there. I just remembered. That's where I first sort of woke up. 
TRAVIS: You had a spinning beach ball on your face for a little bit, and then it cleared up. (laughter) 
SAM: Yeah, that's where I was born, yeah! 
LAURA: Wow! 
SAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: Maybe something was blocking your memory again. 
SAM: It could be-- it's definitely that-- it's definitely because of a reason-- 
TRAVIS: There's probably a software update. 
TALIESIN: You used to know that. I definitely know. We've had this conversation. 
SAM: For sure. 
TALIESIN: It's been a while, but yeah, we had this conversation. 
LIAM: ♪ Been a while ♪ On this map, are these like ravines, roads, valleys? 
MATT: "Those are ravines." 
LIAM: Ravines. 
MATT: "Many portions of this valley have fallen deeper into the ground beneath." 
TRAVIS: That's awesome. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Come on, we got to walk there. 
SAM: Just in general, I've seen them sort of float away. How high do skyships go? Like is it... Is it higher than a bird can fly? 
MATT: "They can fly about as high as a bird can." 
SAM: Oh. Okay. 
MATT: "Maybe a bit higher at times. The winds get stronger at higher altitudes. They can be challenged to maintain course." 
SAM: Oh, okay, well then, we should keep it safe. 
MATT: "The sails are important and they do require gentler weather to stay on course. Many skyships do not ride in storms. There have been skyships that have fallen or vanished in testier weather." 
LIAM: Come on. 
TRAVIS: Also, it gets really cold higher up and also some of us have to breathe. 
SAM: Oh. Okay. 
TRAVIS: It gets a little thinner up there. I crossed a couple of mountains on my way over and you get out of breath. 
LIAM: Also, the gondolas are a little dicey for you. How are you going to be? 
LAURA: Airships, I imagine are fine. 
LIAM: They're awesome. 
LAURA: Gondolas are shaky and held aloft by a single little cable. I have more faith in the brumestone than I do in those shaky little cables. 
LIAM: I bet Fearne could shake the ship somehow. 
TALIESIN: I'll also say-- 
ASHLEY: You bet. 
TALIESIN: The brume-- isn't the brumestone held on by shaky little cables? 
ASHLEY: I'll find a way. 
LAURA: Don't! Don't! Why would you-- why? 
LIAM: But there's so many of them, so if one fails, it's probably fine. 
LAURA: I imagine the airship is like the mother that we saw and you know how we took out a couple of those little things and she was still floating. 
TRAVIS: Actually, I heard if you take out one of them, it just spins on its way down to a fiery death. (oohing) 
TRAVIS: Yeah, like a leaf falling from a tree. 
MARISHA: It sounds like we could survive an airship crash. 
SAM: (laughs) 
MARISHA: We should test it. 
SAM: It's the safest way to travel, statistically. 
MARISHA: Statistically. 
ASHLEY: Do we need to get food, or is food provided on the ship? 
MATT: "There is a..." 
TRAVIS: Horses? 
MATT: "There is a ship chef, but I would recommend bringing rations as they are primarily there to feed the rest of the crew." 
MARISHA: Would you be willing to maybe also send us along with some of those delightful little gingersnap cookies? I've thought about those every damn day of my life. 
LAURA: It's true. I can feel and hear her thoughts and a lot of it is dominated by the thought of cookies. 
MARISHA: They were like little citrusy. It was just superb. 
MATT: "Are you blowing smoke up my tusks?" 
SAM: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Of course not! 
LAURA: Is that possible? 
TALIESIN: No, this is a thing that has happened, apparently. 
MATT: "Evelyn." The door opens. (Evelyn) "Yes?" (Eshteross) "Go to the market." (laughter) 
MATT: "Get me my supplies. Tonight, I bake." (laughter) 
MARISHA: Oh, you're so generous. 
TRAVIS: He's probably not going to put any sleeves on, either. He's just going to be in there, guns out, baking. Fearne, stay away! Cover your eyes! 
LAURA: Do you bake without a shirt on, in just like an apron? Just for visual reference, I'm just trying to-- 
MARISHA: Do you have a little hat? 
MATT: "Do not crash my skyship, please." 
LIAM: Sorry, the last week and a half was kind of hard. We're a little punchy still. 
MATT: "That is all right. I understand. "Nevertheless, I appreciate you putting yourselves on this path with me, continuing... If at any point you wish to diverge, I respect and understand that. I do not wish to consume your time or direction. I suppose I'm just excited to have individuals who are capable, and of like heart." 
TRAVIS: Is that us? 
SAM: Yeah, that's us. 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Probably. 
LIAM: Most of us. 
TRAVIS: One more question about Armand Treshi. 
MATT: "Yes?" 
TRAVIS: Was anyone injured in their escape? What did their injuries look like? 
MATT: "I do not recall there being any injuries, just that he was found having fled with most of his important things." 
TRAVIS: Curious. I shall ponder this. 
LAURA: You're such a good detective, Chetney. 
TRAVIS: That's what I was going for. 
LIAM: Deputy Green Seeker. 
SAM: Was there anything else unrelated to this that we needed to check with, Ariks? Something about-- I know that at some point that there was secret invisible papers that we left with you, but I feel-- did we tick that box off already? 
MATT: "Those were passed along to Seshadri as part of the investigation." 
SAM: Okay, I can cross that off. 
LAURA: I have a question. 
MATT: "Yes?" 
LAURA: Have you heard anything about the Grim Verity? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Good idea. 
MATT: "I feel like I've heard the name before, but it is not ringing a bell." 
LAURA: All right. 
LIAM: Didn't roll high enough. 
ASHLEY: (whispers) What about-- Have him check those-- the signature thing. You know the S and the P. I don't know why I'm whispering. (laughter) 
SAM: We already solved that. 
LIAM: Oh yeah, I recognized that, Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Oh yeah, you recognized it. Sorry, I just was so out of it. I didn't-- 
MARISHA: Yes, it is. 
SAM: Yeah, you were out of it a little bit. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MARISHA: All right, so we'll check back in tomorrow. Do we meet here? Do we meet at the docks? 
MATT: "I can have the skyship ready to go and they will be expecting you, unless you have any other business to stop by." 
SAM: We need to stop by to get the cookies. 
MATT: "You do need to stop by to get the cookies." (laughter) 
MATT: "So yes." 
MARISHA: Come get the cookies-- 
MATT: "Come get the cookies before you leave." 
MARISHA: All right. 
MATT: "Do not forget." 
MARISHA: Oh, pssh. What? Forget! 
MATT: "I mean, if you do, it's just more for me, so..." 
LAURA: She won't forget. 
ASHLEY: We won't forget. 
MATT: "Very well." 
LIAM: Laudna will remember this. 
MARISHA: Get... cookies. 
MATT: "I thought my training was over for the day." 
SAM: Thank you so much. 
MATT: "Thank you. Thank you for your diligence and good luck." 
SAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: I wouldn't mind going to the Dayal Hall. 
SAM: Yeah, Dayal Hall. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, here on the Core Spire. We're here. 
LIAM: To the hall... Marwa's? 
LAURA: Yeah, we should get some supplies. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
SAM: Marwa's... supplies. 
LAURA: We should bring her a croissant. Not that I-- Would I know that? 
MARISHA: To Mar... Oh! 
LAURA: You said you'd bring her a croissant. I remember you saying you brought her a croissant. 
TRAVIS: Wow, that's the first thing you thought of. You love croissants. 
MARISHA: Croissants. 
LAURA: Something new about me. (laughs) 
SAM: Okay, so Marwa's, Aerie Spire. Oh, no. 
LAURA: First, we're going to... 
TRAVIS and SAM: To Dayal Hall. 
MATT: Okay, got you. All right. So following the direction of your memory into this space, you step beyond the neighborhood where the estate of Ariks Eshteross is-- the Prudaj estate. You head further down the spire spiral around the Core, and come upon the exterior where you can see this massive open home constructed of these squat tower arches. They are these... Teacher's watching. You can see these 20-foot tall pinnacled archways, where these intricate carvings match this beautiful hand-sculpted lattice work that comes to the gradual point around it and these pillar striations that rise up before it meets an outcropping of spire rock above, almost like it was carved from the rock itself, but the texture of it leads to believe that this was either different material that was brought here or they found unique materials in the rock and carved the space from it. So where you see this almost alcove, this slight alcove of the spire rock itself, it was built into the side of it. But it is open windows, open halls and even just glancing beyond the archways within, you can see there are all manner of tables and cushions on the floor for sitting and there are pits, like step pits in various areas where there are groups of a dozen or more children of different ages that are sitting in groups with books in front of them and various tutors and teachers that are holding either books or notes in their hands in the process of engaging these children and young adults in some sort of a lecture. You can see four distinct groups already that are currently focused at different areas of here, and there's just like a-- I don't know, a gentler air here than other areas of the city. Usually the bustle and the push of people just surviving or following that goal-driven existence that draws them day-to-day. In here there's an exhale that is welcome. As you step through the initial archway into the space, you can smell a fine, almost lavender incense in the air, that immediately strikes your noses. There are a number of torches embedded in the nearby walls, that have a very faint glimmer but no smoke. Where the alcove itself creates a continuous shade at this time of day, as the sun itself is past over another direction and cast it all into its shadow. The torches give just enough light to give a warm, studious interior feel. What would you like to do? 
TRAVIS: Is there a front desk or a clerk, some sort of an information center that looks like anyone is attending? 
MATT: At the moment, there doesn't appear to be a desk from where you're entering. There are two wardens. There are two of the guards of the city that are just sitting and keeping watch. They have simple chairs, their back having the cloaks and the shoulder pauldrons and holding spears at their side. They're both watching and eyeing you as you enter, as you obviously do not look like you are of the current student body. 
LIAM: Did you say all those groupings of young people listening to little TED Talks and whatnot, is that beyond us inside or is that surrounding the place? 
MATT: That is beyond you inside. Though, on the outside, you do see some kids walking by and you see some groups of friends. Some of them eye you suspiciously. Some of them eye you curiously. It definitely has an open forum schooling sense within. 
TRAVIS: Is there like... (laughter) 
LIAM: Rollies. 
TRAVIS: Is there an academic uniform that's shared? Or we just stand out because the thing? 
LIAM: Because we have a dead person and a robot and a gem guy? 
MATT: You stand out. 
TRAVIS: Got it. 
MATT: You don't sense that there is a uniform. You can see that the ones that are teaching have a beautiful, soft lavender shawl that wraps around their shoulders and then drops long in the front to past their knees. That is the most uniform you see. Beyond that, the rest of their clothing is all different styles of casual wear or even slightly formal wear. You see one of them wearing this beautiful sherwani coat. It's dark black with gold bits along where the breast comes together in the front and they themselves then have the lavender shawl over that drops in the front. 
LIAM: Oh, I want it. 
TRAVIS: It's like Starfleet Academy. Oh, excuse me, warden! 
MATT: The guard glances over to you, stands up. "Yes?" 
TRAVIS: Nice to see you this fine day. Fuck, I suck at this. I am looking for Ajit Dayal. Day-ul. 
MATT: "And the reasoning is?" 
TRAVIS: We met at the ball-- 
SAM: Uh-huh. 
TRAVIS: -- previously. We engaged in intellectual dialogue and I wish to further our discussion. He said to meet him here upon my convenience and convenienced I am. 
MARISHA: That's fantastic. 
TRAVIS: I'm sweating so much. 
MARISHA: You're okay. 
TRAVIS: Thank you. 
MATT: Make a persuasion check. 
TRAVIS: Oh no, I have to roll. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I was told there would be no rolling. (laughter) 
LIAM: Come on. 
TRAVIS: Natural one! (exclaiming) (laughter) (clapping) (oohing) 
ASHLEY: Oh no. 
MATT: The guard definitively stands by the chair and says, "Are you supposed to be here? Are you enrolled with the hall?" 
TRAVIS: No, no, I, no. I figured my credentials from across the sea would allow me entry into such a place of higher learning. 
MATT: "I'm afraid you'll have to wait outside." 
TRAVIS: Oh, that's fair. 
MATT: "Come this way." The guard begins to usher your group-- 
LAURA: Are you-- 
MATT: -- back towards the-- 
LAURA: Going to let Mister-- I wish I could remember what his name was. 
TRAVIS: Pock O'Pea. 
MATT: "What is your name?" 
SAM: Oh, Dayal? 
TRAVIS: Chetney, but I'm known as C-Pock. 
LAURA: Are you going to let C-Pock speak to Mr. Dayal? 
MATT: "I'm going to speak with Mr. Dayal and see if he's expecting anyone. If not, good day." 
LAURA: We-- 
MATT: He continues to push you out towards the entrance. 
LAURA: Will you please let him know it's from a group he met at the, oh fuck, the Quorum ball? 
TRAVIS: Chandei Quorum. 
LAURA: The Chandei Quorum ball. 
MATT: "I will relay this information. I make no promises." 
LIAM: So, look, I-- I think we should probably-- 
TRAVIS: I shit the bed. 
LIAM: -- Imogen do the talking to get in there. 
TRAVIS: You're right. I'm sorry. I just got carried away. 
LAURA: No. 
SAM: No, no. 
LAURA: I thought you were great. 
ASHLEY: You did a great job. 
LAURA: I don't know why he didn't-- 
SAM: I think it was the sweat more than anything that made him a little bit freaked out. 
TRAVIS: It's usually absorbed by the beanie, but man, I was feeling it. 
LIAM: It was really just the like-- Normally, you carry yourself with confidence, but maybe this isn't your forum, but just-- 
TRAVIS: It's not my arena. 
LIAM: The same, but just transfer over the way you feel about wood, just bring it with you. 
TRAVIS: Treat him like wood? 
SAM: Yeah, imagine that he's a block of wood and you're just sort of chipping away. 
TRAVIS: Going to go to town. 
LIAM: Or we just let Imogen do the talking, just here. 
TRAVIS: I'll carve him up real good. 
TALIESIN: You just whittle him down, whittle him down. 
MATT: You can see the guard has been not, just eyeing you as he walks away and then goes and then sits back down in his chair. 
TRAVIS: And that's how I arrived at my thesis. 
SAM: But he didn't go ask? 
TRAVIS: Oh, he didn't go fucking do anything. 
MATT: Not on a one. 
SAM: He didn't even try? 
LAURA: That's so sad. 
TRAVIS: ♪ I might have to go invisible and slit his throat ♪ 
LAURA: You know what, no, I'm going to-- (laughter) 
LAURA: I'm going to-- 
MATT: You can keep pushing, if you want. 
LAURA: No, I'm going to send a message. 
TRAVIS: That's a one. 
LAURA: I'm going to cast Sending. 
SAM: To who? 
MARISHA: Oh. 
LAURA: To Mr. Dayal. 
SAM: Did you meet him? (laughter) 
LAURA: I think I did. Hmm. 
SAM: He was standing over with Eshteross when we met him. I feel like you, as the servant girl, were across the room. 
LAURA: Oh really? 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
LAURA: You want to bring that back up? 
MATT: You largely spoke with his compatriot who was the-- 
SAM: Headmaster Gryz. 
MATT: Yes, Gryz. 
TALIESIN: Wow. 
SAM: I was over there with you because I was making the rounds at the party. 
LAURA: Oh, that's right. We didn't actually speak to Mr. Dayal. 
SAM: No, you were a table by yourself that time. 
MARISHA: Yes, I was. 
LAURA: Headmaster Gryz is the name of the man that sent you to him? 
TRAVIS: Well, no, I was talking with-- no, wait. I was talking with Professor Gryz and I was trying to meet Ajit Dayal, right. 
LAURA: All right. I'm going to head in and go talk to the guard. 
MATT: Okay. The guard-- 
SAM: Need some help? Magical help? 
MATT: -- watches you as you approach and stands up again. 
SAM: Guidance. 
MATT: "I told you to wait." 
LAURA: I understand that, sir. Unfortunately, we're in a bit of a rush. We were sent here by Professor Gryz. We're working for some very important people. 
MATT: Make a persuasion check. 
SAM: I Guided her. 
LIAM: Come on, come on, come on, face. 
LAURA: 16. 
MATT: 16. 
SAM: Oh, that's better than one. 
LAURA: (laughs) Than one. 
MATT: "Professor Gryz was here not but a couple weeks ago. I will take this up with Mr. Dayal." 
LAURA: Thank you. 
MATT: "Please wait at the front with your friends." 
LAURA: Of course. 
MATT: He seems to have resonated with the name and walks away. You see as he approaches the figure you saw earlier with the dark sherwani coat who is off currently having a conversation with one of the other teachers here. The guard approaches and you see them talking a bit. The figure turns and looks over your way. Smiles, nods, and starts walking towards the archway where you guys have been waiting beyond. 
TRAVIS: Do we recognize the figure that was walking towards us? 
MATT: This figure is Ajit Dayal. 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
MATT: You did see this figure at the ball, though you saw them at a distance. At least you saw this figure before, without being able to really put a name to the face. But based on the fact that the guard went to them and as they approached, they put their hands out. "Come, come. You say you are friends of Gryz, yes?" 
LAURA: Not me, personally, but this gentleman here. 
MATT: "Indeed, I apologize for the gruff nature of our protectors here. They want to make sure this is a safe environment for the children." 
LAURA: As it should be. 
MATT: "My apologies. I am Ajit Dayal and I am one of the House Dayal and one of the overseers of this fantastic place of learning. (chuckles)" 
LAURA: I'm not from here. What do you teach? 
MATT: "You see, many of the children of the city cannot afford proper tutelage and schooling tends to be geared towards those who have either the means or the influence. Many parents teach at home for this reason. We, of House Dayal, for quite some time, have felt that that is not enough. Especially for the children who may not have a home or family to go to, or wish to push past the limitations of their social status to achieve higher learning. So we've-- Well, it was before me, established the Dayal Hall and I have taken it upon myself to continue that particular inspiration. Anyway." 
SAM: That's so noble. 
MATT: "It's just what needs to be done. You are, if I might ask? I have not made your acquaintance, but you seem to have mutual friends. So I would to know, who are you?" 
LAURA: We're Bells Hells. We are a group associated with-- Are we allowed to say now? 
SAM: I don't know. 
LAURA: I say in my head to-- 
SAM: Oh, no, he knows Lord Eshteross. They were talking. 
LAURA: He does? 
SAM: Oh, well, Gryz was talking to Eshteross. So they're probably pals. 
LAURA: We work alongside-- 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LAURA: -- Mister Eshteross. 
MATT: "Huh. Hmm." 
TRAVIS: I know he-- 
LAURA: Oh, can I-- oh god. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, do it. 
LIAM: I'll insight check him. 
SAM: How was that reaction? 
LAURA: I want to Detect Thoughts on that. 
MATT: Detect Thoughts on it? 
LIAM: I wanted to roll-- 
LAURA: Yeah, that surface thought. I want to feel what that was. 
MATT: Okay, the immediate surface thought you get. You're doing insight check, you said? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: What'd you get? 
LIAM: 17. 
MATT: 17, okay. We'll share this information a little bit, because the surface thought you glean that this isn't-- He's not offput, is more unexpected. The first thought you read off this is like, "Huh, didn't realize he had individuals he worked with." 
LAURA: Shit. 
MATT: Do you want to keep pushing? 
LAURA: No, I'll just keep it up. 
MATT: Okay. He goes, "Eshteross is an upstanding individual, a bit of a recluse. I'm glad to see that he's branching out. So how do you know the professor, the headmaster?" 
TRAVIS: We had a moment to speak with him at the Chandei Quorum event, ball. It was wonderful being able to chat for a little bit. Might there be a place that we could speak a little bit more in private? 
MATT: "Certainly," and he smiles back at you and you see that he has this very warm smile. You know, short dark hair, dark brown skin. These very, very kind eyes, but definitely holds himself with a posture of... not import, but wanting to engage and with a good impression. "If you feel this is of particular challenged information, we can speak in a more private space. Come with me. Come with me." 
TRAVIS: I like him. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: He puts his hand up to the wardens as they lean forward to check and make sure everything's fine. He leads you past two of the lecturing pits to the sides. Some of these go down a good 10 or so feet about 30 feet across, these continuous gradual steps in slopes. You can see to the right of you, this group of about 22 or so children between the ages of five and probably 10 or so. They're all enraptured with this older woman of white hair, reddish brown, sun-baked skin, deep-seated wrinkles in the corner of her eyes and a bright white smile who is in the process of loudly talking about the philosophies of how to contribute to a culture and the people around you, versus the important-- You're like, okay, those are some good speaking points. Versus the challenges of those that wish to abuse society around you. At first, you're like, that seems like an advanced conversation for children of the age of five or over, but they all, she's not using extensive detailed words, but just trying to impart some of these concepts. They seem to be engaged and listening. 
LIAM: Laying the groundwork. 
MATT: Traveling beyond this, you round the corner to one of three doors that head further into the actual bedrock of the Spire. You can see around here, it looks a large part of the hall itself is within the Spire rock. The exterior has been carved to match the aesthetics of the perimeter archways but continue into a darker cooler interior. You follow Ajit within the first chamber and this is a very simple office, if not a waiting space. There's a silver platter set out with a tea set. He goes and sits over and checks the temperature on the outside of a small cauldron that's sitting over a magical fire set that's licking the bottom of it and he touches it, and goes and runs his hand over it in a circular motion. You watch the flames get brighter. 
TRAVIS: Cool. 
MATT: As it does, it crests the bottom of it and you can get a little bit of steam beginning to quickly rise off of it. He turns. "Would any of you care for some tea?" 
LIAM: I won't say no. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
MATT: "Very well. Give it just a few moments to steep." He goes and takes one of these four different small satchels. He goes into two of them and-- 
MARISHA: (sneezes) 
TRAVIS: Gesundheit. 
MATT: Bless you. Grabs a few handfuls of loose leaves and almost making an improvised mixture on the moment. Feeling them out, tosses them into the cauldron, leaves them there. Turns around and finds a simple stool, sits on it and leans in. 
TRAVIS: Is that silver? 
MATT: "Yes." 
TRAVIS: Lovely. I'm sorry. I came to Jrusar to meet with a man named Gurge Kisgregg. 
MATT: "Huh. How have you come to know Gurge?" 
TRAVIS: (slowly) We share a condition. 
MATT: "Ah, I understand of what you speak." 
TRAVIS: I hope we can trust on your confidence? 
MATT: "Of course." 
TRAVIS: He mentioned your name. 
MATT: "I met Gurge when he first trekked here, when he and his--" He looks past the door. "Gorgynei compatriots--" 
TRAVIS: Oh, he said it. 
MATT: "-- saved me and my wife's lives. We were attacked by a monstrous jungle vine creature while we were returning from Evishi. Me and Gurge became friends, and I began to help provide him and his equally-afflicted compatriots with equipment and supplies that they couldn't find for themselves in the Wilds when they worked within this space. For a good number of years, we were just happy to help them where they needed it. If we need to travel beyond, they would likely keep an eye out for us on our journey to help keep things safe. Eventually, Gurge split from the troop and stayed here while the rest of them roamed further south, southeast. So yeah, Gurge is a good man, if a bit brusque, bit short of word and unrefined, but not in a way that is bothersome. Just takes some folks a bit getting used to." 
TRAVIS: He's told us to stay away going forward. 
MATT: "That sounds about right." 
TRAVIS: Yeah. We've encountered some strange things in this city. He was involved with-- It's not important. This group of Gorgynei, I would be very interested in an introduction, if you might be able to arrange one. I am new to this affliction, and would be very interested to hear about the experiences anyone else could share. 
MATT: "Understood. You're certain you would wish to... There are ways to be rid of this affliction, if you so wish." 
TRAVIS: Oh, uh-- No, no, well, one step at a time. I feel it's best to understand one's existence before you try and alter it. 
MATT: "Very well. I do not judge. The Gorgynei, as eccentric as some may think for their means of thinking about such an existence, they have made it work and have done many misunderstood, but good things for the people and societies around them that shun them. So I see the worth in what you speak of." 
TRAVIS: It's also sort of part of an arrangement. I have to find a way to really harness it. There are those that would follow that-- 
MATT: "Understood, and I hope you do. If it all becomes too much, don't be afraid to let me or any of my compatriots here know. We do have contacts with individuals that could alleviate you of this curse." 
TRAVIS: Oh, yes? Yes. It's good to know. 
MATT: "But given this is the path you've chosen to walk and in hopes of wrangling the beast as Gurge has. The Gorgynei exists within the Gloomed Jungles of Aeshanadoor. They left the Wilds and last I heard, didn't fare as well in the wide open landscapes of the Hellcatch. The Gloomed Jungle definitely befits their skill set and gives them enough space and shaded nature to avoid hunters and those who would wish to make coin off the hides of such afflicted." 
TRAVIS: Whoa, the hides? That's horrible. 
MATT: "Yes, there are many horrible people in this world and individuals that do not look far enough to understand that behind every beast, there may be a story, behind every poor lot in life, there's a chance for redemption." 
TRAVIS: Behind every wolf, a prince? I know, I was thinking it, too. These Gorgynei, what are their number? Are there dozens of them? Hundreds? 
MATT: "When we had encountered in the Wilds, there were about two dozen. Their numbers may have grown or shrunk. It has not since me and Gurge went our separate ways a couple of years back that I have not heard much about them beyond just that was where they went to settle." 
SAM: How often does your kind reproduce? 
TRAVIS: I don't know. Do you know much about-- (whispered) Do you know much about the reproductive capabilities of? 
MATT: You see his complexion blush slightly as he sits back in his stool and goes, "I mean, it's the same as whoever else. The curse itself is hosted through a bite and spread." 
SAM: So they don't have litters? 
LIAM: Is it passed through birth? 
MATT: "That is beyond my purview of understanding. I could be wrong." 
LAURA: Are there people that just live exclusively in their wolf form? 
MATT: "From as I understand it, and this comes from many conversations with the Gorgynei, to wrestle the beast within is a very difficult road. It is fraught with danger. It is fraught with regret. It is fraught with mistakes you must live with, for the beast cannot always be controlled. It is through the Gorgynei that they have, somehow utilizing some techniques, some arcana I don't understand, have managed to use it. To come to an arrangement with the beast than letting it overtake. I can say that they are the exception. For many that acquire this affliction cannot. They give in. They hunt and they kill and they eat indiscriminately." 
TRAVIS: That's terrible. 
MARISHA: That's not you, though. That's not Chetney. 
SAM: Have you ever felt that way before? 
TRAVIS: No, no. I don't want to say it's beginner's luck, but I've always found the beast rides second pozish to old Chet. I'm calling the shots. Now, I don't know if it'll always be that way, because I figure with each passing moon, I'll get stronger. But for now, it's all gravy. 
MARISHA: All right. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LAURA: You've never had a moment where the beast was in control? 
TRAVIS: You know. 
SAM: Maybe you wouldn't remember? 
TRAVIS: I know-- I've slipped up a couple times. It's happened. 
SAM: Did you do anything that you regret? 
TRAVIS: Sure, I mean, who doesn't live without regret? 
TALIESIN: Me, you. 
SAM: Me. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: That's exceptional. 
LAURA: I have some, I have some. 
TRAVIS: I do want to meet these people because I... enjoy the rush. Sorry, I'm just going to say it. It's fucking exciting, but I know it comes with responsibility. 
MATT: "Yes, it does." 
TRAVIS: This kind of raw magnetism has consequences. So I have to make sure I don't attract asteroids that would then kill the planet of me. 
MARISHA: Well, the thing about asteroids, too, is that they have an area of effect. They hit other things around them as well. So I just think that that might be like, what. 
LIAM: (lisping) Damage a whole area? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, you don't want to attract a global killer. That would be game over, right? 
MARISHA: Right, yes. 
TRAVIS: Armageddon. 
MARISHA: I mean, Chetney is like-- You're so powerful, you know, he's-- yeah, yeah. You have such control. 
MATT: "I trust and I hope you're right, and I genuinely hope that you find them and they can help you. Because if you don't and they can't, there are many out there that won't give the time to know that you have control. And in time you may not." 
TRAVIS: Ugh. 
MATT: "There are many who make a good amount of coin hunting those like you. So just be careful." 
TRAVIS: Wise words. 
SAM: Definitely. So we know sort of where they are. Do you need to know any of the members of the group in case we do encounter them? 
TRAVIS: Oh, right, the Gloomed Jungles of Aeshanadoor. Do you know of a contact? 
MATT: "I didn't get to know many of them well. Gurge was my primary contact when I went and spoke with them. They tend to keep to themselves and they're a bit skittish when it comes to city folk." 
TRAVIS: Sure. 
MATT: "But beyond Gurge, there was Divaas." 
MARISHA: Wait, we've heard that before, right? 
LIAM: No. 
LAURA: We have! 
MATT: There are similar names you're thinking of, but this is not quite like before. 
LAURA: Not it? Okay. 
TRAVIS: Not it. 
TRAVIS: Divaas? 
MATT: "Divaasheela is the entire name." 
TRAVIS: Divaashéela? 
MATT: Divaásheela. 
LAURA: Divaasheela. 
MATT: "She seemed to be holding a more leadership position within the Gorgynei at the time. If she still travels with them, you can likely speak on mine and Gurge's name. Though, I know not how they parted ways." 
TRAVIS: Mm. 
MATT: "Regardless, I do not know specifically where in the Jungle they would reside, but I do know as how Gurge would find them whenever he came into the city to get supplies for them and meet with me. He would wait until dusk, get far away from the city, and howl as loud as he could once the sun touched the mountains. They would come find him. Now, mind you, they have good hearing. So do many other creatures in the Gloomed Jungle." 
TRAVIS: Like a raging jungle vine creature? 
MATT: "They may be indigenous to that Jungle as well. My encounter-- I mean, my wife's encounter with that was here in the Oderan Wilds." 
LAURA: I believe we ran into a raging vine creature. 
TALIESIN: Is that why you bring it up? 
LAURA: As well. 
TRAVIS: It has a stinger, right? 
LAURA: It swallows people. 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
MATT: "Strange little glowing appendage." 
LAURA: Fairy on the end, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Strange little glowing thing. 
MATT: "Indeed, so I do owe them that thanks, to this day. So just be aware the dangers of drawing out the Gorgynei in such a space. Hopefully they get to you before anything else does." 
TRAVIS: Ooh. 
MATT: "But that's as far as my knowledge goes." 
TRAVIS: You've been very kind. This is very helpful. I had run into a bit of a dead end until this. So thank you so much. If we can be of any assistance, by the way, we're going to be traveling southeast out of Jrusar, if you need anything looked after or checked up on, or brought back, we'd be happy to accommodate as an exchange. 
MATT: "I suppose if you're going so far as the Gloomed Jungles to meet these individuals, if you come back, just let me know how they're doing." 
TRAVIS: Oh no, I love him. 
MARISHA: He's pretty great. 
TRAVIS: It would be a pleasure. 
MATT: "And extend my offer that if any of them are still struggling with their curse, then we can help them." 
TRAVIS: Curse. Their condition. 
MARISHA: Sure. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: "My apologies, I do not mean to offend." 
TRAVIS: No, no. 
MARISHA: There's nothing wrong with you. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, it's all about education as well, just awareness. 
MARISHA: Yeah. Honestly, you're so kind and accepting of misfits. 
MATT: "Good is in all of us. Not everyone's given the chance to let it shine." 
SAM: That is true. 
LAURA: Insight check. 
ASHLEY: I love him! 
LAURA: I do love him. I just want to insight check, just in case. 
MATT: Make an insight check. 
TRAVIS: Do you think he's a mass murderer? 
LAURA: I don't know! 
TRAVIS: He wears people's faces, for sure. 
MARISHA: It's always the nice ones. 
LAURA: He's so nice, and I'm used seeing like, you know, people that seem ni-- 20. 
MARISHA: We're very jaded. 
MATT: 20? Okay. 
SAM: Oh my gosh, we're doing a whisper? 
TRAVIS: We were doing so great. 
SAM: We're doing a whisper? 
TRAVIS: He's like, "The purple one's skin--" 
SAM: This whisper is brought to you by our tool set for today, D&D Beyond. 
TALIESIN: D&D Beyond. 
TRAVIS: ♪ D&D Beyond ♪ 
SAM: D&D Beyond. It's on our generic tablet. 
LAURA: I love you. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Non-identifiable. Shut up! Thank you so much. Does anybody else have any questions for? 
SAM: Nope. 
TALIESIN: Well. I mean, just in case we have to go undercover, how much would a pelt like that go for? 
TRAVIS: What the fuck, man? 
TALIESIN: It's good to know, so if we get-- 
TRAVIS: What are you talking about? 
TALIESIN: I mean, just in case. 
TRAVIS: You're talking about currency? 
ASHLEY: No, just in casies. 
TRAVIS: Just knowledge? 
TALIESIN: This is good knowledge to have if we have to go underground. 
LIAM: Or if we need to outbid somebody to let somebody go. 
TALIESIN: It's really not to draw attention. 
TRAVIS: That's fair. 
MATT: "In all due respect, I have no idea." 
LAURA: That's good that you don't. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, okay, he's all right. Just double checking. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "Anyway, I do have to get back to my--" 
LAURA: Of course, yeah. 
MATT: "-- things, good luck." 
MARISHA: Are you teaching right now? Do you have a class? 
MATT: "Not today, but I am training a new--" 
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, do you teach violin? Apparently that was a thing? 
MATT: "I do not, but we do have some musicians that occasionally come and volunteer?" 
TALIESIN: You're welcome. 
TRAVIS: You know, I'm a big fan of the-- 
ASHLEY: Do you ever watch-- 
TRAVIS: What? 
ASHLEY: Go ahead, Chet. 
TRAVIS: No, no, please. 
ASHLEY: I was just going to see if we could ever watch one of your teachings? 
SAM: Like audit a class? 
ASHLEY: Yes. Are we too old? 
MATT: "No, no, never too old. I would perhaps need to ensure that the students present would be comfortable with your presence. As I say, once again, with all due respect, you're a bit frightening. I say this just unknowing how the students can take a moment to warm up." 
MARISHA: I'm fun scary. 
MATT: "I'm sure you are, I'm sure you are." 
LIAM: Funsky. 
MATT: "I need to make sure that such students would be prepared for somebody who is fun scary." 
MARISHA: Kids love scary shit. 
TRAVIS: I was going to say, I'm a big fan of the moon. Obviously, it's of interest. Imogen happens to have a particular interest in the lunar stuff as well. Ruidus, right? 
LAURA: Yeah. Yes, quite an interest, actually. 
MATT: "You are not an astrologer?" 
LAURA: I am not. We are-- 
MATT: "Astronomer." 
TALIESIN: Neither that, too. 
LAURA and ASHLEY: (laughs) 
LAURA: We've just been looking into different effects that Ruidus has on people and whatnot. I don't know if that's anything y'all teach here, though. 
MATT: "Not so much teaching, but I mean, many are familiar with the superstitions, the flares, those born beneath them. Historically, and this is just my opinion, I think it's an excuse to find a way or a place to put your frustrations on others who don't deserve it. Culturally through history, when people feel like they lack control, they try and find somebody they can exert that control upon. I've taught, and met, many wonderful people who were born under the flare over Ruidus." 
LIAM: So you believe the faults are not in our moons, but in ourselves. 
MATT: "I believe a lot of faults are in ourselves and not the superstitions we push and teach. So yes." 
LIAM: Well, then you're free and clear. 
LAURA: Do you know any professors at the university in Yios? 
MATT: "I do. I do. Professor Tairan actually started here at the Hall before moving over to Yios about 15 years ago and themselves became a professor there, so they're an ex-student." 
LAURA: Oh wow. Hold on. I'm just going to check. 
TRAVIS: Professor Tairos, you said? 
SAM: Tairan? 
TALIESIN: You going to your journal? 
MATT: "Tairan." 
LAURA: Yeah, I'm just trying to find my notes on-- I'm so sorry. 
LIAM: Take your time. 
SAM: The only other one we know is Professor Kadija Sumal. 
LAURA: You already have that pulled up? How do you pull that up so fast? 
SAM: In my Yios section. 
TRAVIS: He writes in like four font. It's crazy. 
TALIESIN: Wow. 
MARISHA: He does. 
LAURA: Ah, I can't find it. 
TALIESIN: When Marisha's looking enviously at someone's notes, you know they've got to be good. 
LAURA: Fucking hell balls! 
MARISHA: He's got a very good system, different than mine. 
LAURA: Yeah, Kadija Sumal wrote an essay about dreams affecting powers. 
MATT: "Hmm." 
LAURA: Are you--? 
MATT: "I'm not familiar with her, no. But if you're in the area and you want to meet Tairan, you're welcome to say you are acquaintances of mine and perhaps he can be of help." 
LAURA: Wonderful. I really appreciate that. 
MATT: "Of course, of course. I really do have to get back to my--" 
LAURA: Yes, go, please, I'm sorry. 
MATT: "-- studies, unfortunately." 
ASHLEY: You said you were married, correct? 
LIAM: We will never let him go. 
MATT: "I am married. I do not have children as of yet, but--" 
TALIESIN: If you did, what would their names be? (laughter) 
TALIESIN: I'm sorry. (laughter) 
MATT: "Anyway." 
TALIESIN: Sorry. Carry on. 
LAURA: We will leave. 
SAM: Thank you. 
LAURA: We will leave. Thank you for all of your help. 
ASHLEY: Go do your things. 
MATT: "It was a pleasure. Good luck." 
MARISHA: We can find our way out. 
TRAVIS: Thank you. 
MATT: "Good luck." 
LAURA: We're leaving. We are going. 
MATT: "Well." 
SAM: Bye. 
MATT: "Tea, at least?" 
LAURA: Oh. Sure. 
MATT: He goes and pours you all-- 
SAM: We just sit here and drink. 
MATT: Yeah, he pours you all tea and puts it back, says, "Take your time." 
LAURA: Thank you. 
MATT: He nods and exits off into the open air of the Hall. 
LAURA: Chet, the reason I didn't want to talk about it is because after what we learned about the Grim Verity, I feel like those people are coming after anybody that's looking into Ruidus too much, so I'm starting to get a little worried about digging deeper. 
LIAM: If we poke our heads up too high, asking questions about it. 
TRAVIS: Sorry, I just figured he's such a sweetheart. 
LAURA: Yeah, he seemed wonderful. 
LIAM: Right, but he could very sweetly mention it to someone, the wrong person. 
TRAVIS: That's true. It's your thing. I shouldn't have tossed it out there. 
LAURA: Not at all, it's just a thought that came up in my head and I didn't know if it was something to be aware of, is all. 
TRAVIS: We got a name out of it, Professor Tairan. 
LAURA: Yeah, that's wonderful! 
TRAVIS: Fuck yeah! 
SAM: And a name of your Gorgynei, a person in the Gorgynei. 
TRAVIS: That was a score. 
SAM: But he seemed very concerned about your stability and your emotional health. 
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: Should we be concerned? Are you bottling up rage and fury of the wolf? 
TRAVIS: Not of the wolf. I mean, I had plenty of that before, but... There was a moment in the heist where Orym came down to help me. I got stuck in the room with the big jelly monster, and-- 
LAURA: We haven't even talked about-- a jelly monster? 
TRAVIS: It was real shitty down there. It was almost curtains. 
TALIESIN: Oh, that thing! With the pit. 
MARISHA: With the chain? 
TRAVIS: Into the floor? 
MARISHA: We were at the end of the chain. We didn't see. 
SAM: I was in the middle. I saw a little peek. 
TRAVIS: There was a big thing. The floor was jelly and these arms came up and grabbed me and it burned and yeah, it was no good. But Orym came to the rescue. But I was a little punchy, and I was in my better form and unfortunately, there was an instinct to just let the wolf do his thing and I, regrettably, slashed at Orym. 
SAM: Did you apologize?! 
TRAVIS: I did. I did. 
SAM: Did you accept? 
LIAM: I did. 
TRAVIS: But he thought it was important to raise it in front of the group, which I appreciate, you know? 
LAURA: Is this something that could happen again, Chet? 
TRAVIS: I don't know, I've never done that before, but I usually don't travel with friends. 
LIAM: Insight check. 
TALIESIN: Thank you. (laughter) 
LIAM: Not bad. 17. 
TRAVIS: I've never slashed a friend before. 
LAURA: Uh-huh, okay. 
SAM: That you remember. 
ASHLEY: You don't really have control over it, then? 
TRAVIS: I mean, I do a large percentage of the time. That was the first time that it peeked through and it didn't really matter who was in front of me. It was game time. 
LAURA: All right. 
LIAM: But you... 
LAURA: Something to be aware of. 
SAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Yeah! 
SAM: We'll just keep an eye on it. 
TRAVIS: That's the thing to climb up on and you put your foot on its throat and then you hold onto them shits for eight seconds and then it's-- 
LAURA: Hold onto them shits? Now, what do you think it was-- 
SAM: Got to let them shits go. 
LAURA: -- that triggered the outburst? 
TRAVIS: I can't talk too much because my voice will start changing, so go ahead. (laughter) 
SAM: Just talk to me, then. (laughter) 
LAURA: Do you think it was the danger you were in, the mental state you were in, the damage you were taking? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I was real hurt. It wasn't going good for me. I think the beast has a feral reaction when it gets cornered, you know? They say a cornered animal is a dangerous one. 
SAM: Fight or flight sort of a thing? 
TRAVIS: Yeah! 
LIAM: But Chet. We're traveling together. Be honest. Do you think that'll happen again? 
TRAVIS: No? Maybe. It's just-- 
SAM: That's good enough for me. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, maybe it's just important to keep me healthy. 
TALIESIN: That no had a question mark at the end of it. That no definitely had-- 
TRAVIS: I don't think so. But I think until we meet with the Gorgynei, there's a chance when shit gets a little hairy, I get a little, you know. 
LIAM: Mortals plan and gods laugh. 
LAURA: So stay clear of Chet when he's taking some damage. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, maybe give me some space. 
SAM: Or give him some healing. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, or that. 
MARISHA: But perhaps this is something you can work towards, you know? You have a goal. 
TRAVIS: For sure, I mean, I would love to just walk around wolfed out all the fucking time. 
LAURA: So you would exist as a wolf 24/7? 
TRAVIS: You've seen it, wouldn't you? 
LAURA: I mean, 28/9, I'm not sure. 
TRAVIS: I'm pretty attractive the way I am now, but if I was just walking around like that all the time, I think I could just get anybody to do what I wanted to. 
LIAM: How are your woodworking skills when you're in that condition? 
TRAVIS: I don't need instruments. I just use my nails. 
LIAM: Do you have toys you've made like that? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. They're a little rough. 
ASHLEY: You've made toys in your wolf form? 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was trying to remember. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I tried. It's like doing it when you've had nine drinks because there's just a little bit of focus that's needed and that's a little wishy-washy, but for the detailed work, I would just shift back. 
TALIESIN: I can't wait to see a toy you make in your wolf form. I'm very excited about this. 
TRAVIS: It's kind of abstract. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I had that vibe. 
LIAM: Well, I'm glad you told us. I'm glad you told the group because we want to trust each other and as long as you're upfront, we can accommodate. I think. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I mean, in all honesty, I haven't traveled with friends since I've been like this. It's just been myself, even after I met up with Gurge, so if we are in the thick of it and it's going south, you know? I'm like a heat-seeking missile so maybe just give me a little room. 
SAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: An asteroid. 
TRAVIS: If it's dire, but otherwise, I'm in control. I can talk. 
SAM: It sounds like from what you were describing 
TRAVIS: I can do other things. 
SAM: With the Gorgynei. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
SAM: It sounds like they have mastered their bodies and the Gorgynei have controlled their wolf forms, so maybe that's something that you could work on with meditation or maybe some self-actualizing? 
MARISHA: Yes! 
TRAVIS: Like tantric exercises? 
SAM: Tantric, yeah, prolonging that sort of-- 
TRAVIS: Yeah, just holding it. 
SAM: Climactic. 
TRAVIS: Holding it! Holding! 
LIAM: Prolong the wolf. 
SAM: For hours or days, even. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, it's all about mind over-- 
SAM: You know what? You need to put yourself in a situation where there needs to be a release and you have to delay that release as long-- 
ASHLEY: Right at the edge. 
SAM: -- as possible. Yeah. 
SAM: You have to edge it! 
LIAM: So the next time you want to slice my forearm to ribbons, just creep along the edge of that desire for as long as possible, but don't actually do it. 
TRAVIS: Toy with it, but don't get too close because then the party's over. 
MARISHA: Hold on loosely. 
TRAVIS: Once you go over the edge-- 
MARISHA: But don't let go. 
TRAVIS: -- you got to wait a while before it's party time again. 
TALIESIN: Feel like I'm watching a bad advice contest here. It's really amazing. 
LIAM: You've got to ride that wave, Chetney. 
TALIESIN: Can't tell who's winning. 
TRAVIS: Right. Maybe I should build a board. 
SAM: Next time you get in trouble, just think. Try to do some exercises. Try to keep that edge. 
LIAM: Think about baseball. 
SAM: Think about baseball. 
TRAVIS: Just look at my eyes, right? 
SAM: Sometimes you count the days of the week. (laughter) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: If you look at me and I'm not quite there, you know, just. (laughs) 
SAM: Should we just say something? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, we've got to have a word, you know? Babe Ruth! 
SAM: Babe Ruth, all right. 
LAURA: Got it. 
MARISHA: Babe Ruth. 
TALIESIN: Carrying me. 
LIAM: The laughter is killing me. (laughter) 
SAM: All right. Well, I'm glad we had this conversation at this school for children. 
MARISHA: School, yeah. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Oh, that's right. 
MATT: Yep. 
SAM: Let's go! 
TALIESIN: You've said a lot of inappropriate things in front of kids this last couple of hours. 
LIAM: No, we're in a private office. 
ASHLEY: We're in a private room with tea. 
MATT: The door is open and there's a small child. 
ALL: No! 
MATT: No, no, no. 
TRAVIS: We've got to go. 
LIAM: That is a dwarf who's 400 years old. 
TRAVIS: Is the tea that he brought in on a silver platter and that's it, or are the cups also silver? 
MATT: The cups are not silver. 
TRAVIS: Okay. Just the platter? 
MATT: Just the platter. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I have a thing with silver. 
LAURA: Oh, for real? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, but that's what friends disclose to each other, right? I'm a little sensitive to silver. 
LIAM: Oh, you super like it? 
TRAVIS: No, it's a little itchy. 
TALIESIN: Now we know what we're getting you for Winter's Crest. That's cool. 
LIAM: Oh, allergies. 
MARISHA: Sometimes-- yeah, I-- you know. 
TRAVIS: Which is cool because I keep paying for the fucking gondola rides and every time I'm like, argh! On the inside. 
LAURA: If you want someone else to hold all the silver coins for you or-- 
TALIESIN: Or wear a glove or something. 
TRAVIS: You just want to hold the silver? I can give you the copper, too. 
LAURA: No, that's all right. 
TRAVIS: I have no reaction to gold or platinum. 
LAURA: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Maybe we just switch and I'll hold yours. 
LAURA: That's so sweet. 
TALIESIN: Let's see what happens with copper. 
TRAVIS: Okay, I'll give you silver. 
SAM: Speaking of silver, I need some silver for some spell components and stuff. Do we need to prep for this trip? 
LAURA: I feel like we should. 
TALIESIN: We have a little shop-- 
LAURA: How much time we got left? 
SAM: A couple more stops, where are we going? 
LIAM: Marwa's. 
TALIESIN: I feel like we've been edging this one for quite a while. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, let's go see Marwa. 
LAURA: I would love to go to Marwa's. 
MATT: This is your chance to finish up anything you want to do before you head out for the next day, so. 
LIAM: What a rabbit hole. 
MATT: Yep. 
TALIESIN: Couple quick things and then we'll be good to go. 
LIAM: Nothing quick about it. 
TALIESIN: Nothing quick. 
MATT: All right. 
SAM: So we're going to go to the Lantern Spire? Is that where she is? 
MATT: Correct, the Trove of Marwa is in the Lantern Spire. 
SAM: Lantern Spire. Are we going to go straight to her? 
LIAM: Yes. 
SAM: She sells tools and shit, right? 
LIAM: And quirky items. It's where we got the rope. 
SAM: Okay, okay. 
LIAM: That rope we got so much use out of. 
SAM: And-- okay, great. 
TRAVIS: It's been a minute. 
SAM: Let's go. We're there. Boom. 
LAURA: Don't tell her that we lost the rope. 
LIAM: No. 
MATT: Okay. You travel on through the city, away from the Dayal Hall, across the Fatewalk, back to the Lantern Spire to the quirky exterior of the Trove of Marwa. Stepping into the dark interior, the familiar odd mixture of scents, the musty dust, oil, and partially molded carpet meets you along with bits of orange spice. It's-- 
LAURA: We got a croissant on the way. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
MATT: All right, mark off a couple copper and you're good. 
MARISHA: I got this one. (laughter) 
MATT: As you enter, the place is fairly empty and you see Marwa's back is to you. She's hunched over a back table beyond the front central bar clerk area. There's just this tension, this silent tension before you hear, "Come on, come on, come on, come on!" Ting, and something goes flying, (smashing) breaks a pot that's hanging from the ceiling. 
LAURA: I catch it-- 
MATT: The plant inside just shatters-- 
LAURA: -- before it falls on the ground. 
MATT: Stops in the air, she goes, "Ah! Oh, oh, great, thank you, awesome." 
LAURA: I float it back over to her. 
MATT: "So sorry, that was weird. That was embarrassing." 
LAURA: It's fine. 
MATT: "Meant to do it. It's great. Hate that plant. Throw it away. What can I get for you?" (laughter) 
LAURA: It floats out the door. 
MATT: "Appreciate that, all right." 
TRAVIS: Dead to me. 
LAURA: Hi again! 
MATT: "Hi. Hi! Sorry, took me a second. See so many customers here, day in, day out, just faces, just become a blur." 
LAURA: I'm sure. 
MATT: "Whole blur." 
TALIESIN: We specifically get that a lot. 
LIAM: I roll FCG forward. 
MATT: She tips her foot back and scoops everything on the back table off of it into a basket and then pushes it under the table. "So." 
LAURA: What were you making? 
MATT: "Hmm? Stuff. What are you looking for?" 
TALIESIN: Stuff, that's so weird. 
MATT: "You're looking for stuff? That's crazy. That's wild!" 
LIAM: We're also looking for stuff. 
MATT: "We've got plants. Whole, broken. We have, uh... Curtains! There are curtains. Three colors. Three-- Three colors. There are..." 
LAURA: Are you-- 
MATT: "I got a lot of things! Give me some guidance. What are you looking for?" 
LAURA: Do you have any magical items that you have acquired as of recent? 
MATT: "Ah. (buzzes lips) Um. There-- I don't have that large of a stock right now. Sold a number of things I had last time we spoke. Did get a quick grab bag offloaded by some wanderer yesterday, didn't finish pricing them, or throw them away yet. They might have murdered someone for it. I don't know. I was going to turning them in if they were--" 
SAM: You murdered someone? 
MATT: "No, no!" 
SAM: Oh. 
MATT: "No. Did I murder someone?" 
MARISHA: They murdered something. 
SAM: Oh. 
MATT: "No. Pff. They might have. I don't know whatever they did. They walked in, they gave me stuff. I paid them for it. They pawned it. They walked away." 
LAURA: Do you want to go through it while we're standing here? 
MATT: "You know what? Sure, why not." 
LIAM: Maybe we can repurpose for good. 
MATT: Goes and pulls out this milk crate (thuds) up onto the table. Starts picking through it and you can see, there's bits of cotton and you notice there's a cushion that's been partially eaten. She goes, "What the--?" Opens it and pulls a rat out of it. The rat's like. (squeaks) She goes. (sighs) (gasping) 
MATT: "Stay. Well." 
MARISHA: Do you have a pet rat?! 
MATT: "Yes." 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: "This is Jay. Say hi to Jay." 
ALL: Hi, Jay. 
MATT: "Jay ruined this pillow. Can you throw this away for me, too?" 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "Thank you. We have--" 
LAURA: Float it out the door. 
MATT: "This," and pulls up. It's this curved ivory horn, or it looks like it's ivory, but the way the design on it appears too perfect to have been carved. It curves outward and then widens on one end. "This is a horn. This is a horn of-- Wait, I wrote this down." Pulls out some notes from underneath. "Horn of Silent Alarm. This, if you blow it, and think of somebody within a certain range, they'll hear it, and only they will." 
SAM: Oh. 
MATT: "Really helpful for pissing off your neighbors." 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "I have this one at an estimated 30 gold." Puts it on the front there. "There is-- this one's a little weird. I didn't get around to this one." Pulls up from the bottom and slaps it, you can see it is a large, dark gray, almost black, leather something. As she pulls it out, it unfolds and there is red on it. Wet red. As she flaps it outward, it sprays a whole stream and spatters of crimson liquid across the front of the table and the ground and catches you a little bit on the right, Imogen. Goes, "It's like a-- You see why I think they might have murdered somebody, right? This is like an apron. It's a murder apron." 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
MATT: "I do know--" 
LAURA: Does it smell like iron? 
MATT: "Yeah." (laughter) 
LAURA: It's blood. Is it blood? 
MATT: "I've cleaned it twice! That's the weird thing." 
TRAVIS: What? 
SAM: Wait, what? 
MATT: "Yeah, right!" Again. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
ASHLEY: Oh god. 
LAURA: Whose blood is it? Where's the blood coming from? 
MATT: "I don't know! He must've really murdered them." 
SAM: May I take a look? I can sometimes identify things that others can't. 
MATT: "Sure. Yeah, please." 
SAM: If I identify it, will you give my friends a discount if we wanted to purchase it? 
LAURA: If you want to get a murder apron. 
SAM: What if it's... I don't know. 
MATT: "Can you tell me if they murdered someone?" 
SAM: Maybe. 
MATT: "Then maybe." 
SAM: Okay. I will-- 
LAURA: Prestidigitation. Prestidigitation. 
SAM: I will identify it with... 
TALIESIN: Squeegee that thing. 
LIAM: Check the apron. 
MATT: All right. It is indeed magical. In fact, glancing at the... This is particularly a magical item that is utilized for those who like to hurt things a lot. Warriors, hunters, killers. It is referred to as the Butcher's Bib. 
SAM and TRAVIS: The Butcher's Bib. 
LAURA: Does it give fresh blood or something for spells or something? 
MATT: It continuously bleeds. 
SAM: That's the only thing it does? 
MATT: No, it has other benefits, too. 
TALIESIN: That's still pretty cool. 
MATT: It's not a whole lot, but it is always damp with blood. 
LAURA: Ugh. 
LIAM: (gags) 
LAURA: That's really fucking gross. 
ASHLEY: How much it is? 
TALIESIN: I know. I'm already curious. 
MATT: You tell her what it does? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, same. 
SAM: Yeah, it says, "Once per turn, you roll damage for a--" Yeah, I tell her. "Once per turn, you roll damage for a melee attack with a weapon. You can reroll the weapon's damage dice. If you do so, you must use the second total. Your weapon attacks that deal slashing damage score a crit on a 19." 
LAURA: Oh, okay. 
TRAVIS: Or 20. 
SAM: Or 20. 
TRAVIS: And you just drip blood the whole time. 
MATT: "So did somebody murder with this?" 
SAM: Do I know? 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
SAM: I assume that yes, it has been used to kill. Yes, it's a murder apron. 
MATT: "Then I didn't see it. I didn't touch it. 350 gold." (laughter) 
SAM: 300... Wow. 
MATT: "I paid for it!" 
SAM: Oh, you did? 
MATT: "He pawned it to me. I thought I'd just clean it off, then it just kept bleeding." 
TRAVIS: How much did you buy it for? 
MATT: "That is a business secret." 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
TALIESIN: That's fair. 
TRAVIS: I thought we were doing favors for each other. 
MATT: "We are! I'm still making a profit, but a far smaller profit than I would've had otherwise." 
TALIESIN: I could, although I don't do the cutty-cutty. 
MATT: She doesn't realize that she's doing this. 
SAM: It's slashing damage only? 
MARISHA: It's best for Orym. 
TRAVIS: She's just got blood on hand. 
MATT: Yeah, she doesn't realize she has blood on her hand and she's just doing this while looking at you, and it's smeared all over her cheeks. 
TRAVIS: She looks like Hannibal Lecter. 
SAM: Maybe there's a way to undo the blood part but keep the bib part? 
TRAVIS: I don't think so, not without losing the-- 
ASHLEY: But I feel like that's part of the appeal. (laughter) 
MARISHA: I agree with that. 
TRAVIS: We would never go into anywhere. 
TALIESIN: It's clearly bleeding even when you don't wear it, which actually is a problem. 
TRAVIS: Are you just bleeding? 
TALIESIN: If it stopped bleeding when you weren't wearing it-- 
MATT: "Just keep it in a bag!" 
TALIESIN: Out of curiosity, I'm going to put it on and feel like, does it feel right? Is this something that you have to wear for a while to actually... 
SAM: Attune to it? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, is there an attunement to this or is it just-- 
MATT: Look at the item. 
MARISHA: Search Butcher's Bib. 
TRAVIS: Requires attunement. 
SAM: It's from "The Explorer's Guild to Wildemount." 
TALIESIN: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh! 
LIAM: I remember that picture. 
LAURA: Oh my goodness. 
TRAVIS: Requires attunement, it's always covered in blood. 
TALIESIN: Requires attunement? 
MATT and TRAVIS: Yes. 
TALIESIN: Fuck. So you just have to be wet with blood the entire time that you're wearing it? 
MATT and TRAVIS: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: It'll never not look like it's covered in blood. Even if you wash it off. 
MATT: You definitely want to wear a coat. (laughs) 
TRAVIS: You'll have blood all over the inside of that coat. 
LAURA: I will continually cast Prestidigitation on you. 
TRAVIS: That's awesome. 
TALIESIN: It won't help. 
LAURA: It will help for a minute. 
TALIESIN: Out of curiosity, you just hit it with Prestidigitation. How bad is it again? 
TRAVIS: It's actually probably good for us because we're going to rough town. 
MATT: It's like beginning of Amityville walls. There's just a few mild streaks beginning. It doesn't drip long trails, but it's just always wet. 
SAM: All right, forget it. 
LAURA: What else is in your crate? 
TALIESIN: That might just be too disgusting, even for me. 
MATT: "Okay. Then I'm going to give it to the wardens." 
TRAVIS: For free? 
MATT: "If it's a murder thing, I don't want to be dealing with it! Or I could sell it to them. I can ask." 
LAURA: Yeah, I mean if you're going to sell it, you should sell it to them, at least. 
ASHLEY: Well, if you're going to get rid of it, I mean, also we'll take it. 
LAURA: We could just take it and give it to the wardens. 
MATT: "Could you do that?" 
LAURA: We'll take it to the wardens. 
MATT: "For 350 gold?" (laughter) 
MATT: "Aah!" (aahing) 
MATT: "Nice try! No, but seriously--" 
SAM: We could try to sell it for you to somebody who's like... 
MATT: "You could try and take it and sell it for more than 350 gold and then make a profit." 
SAM: All right, I see where you're going with this. 
MATT: "I have a business to run. You understand that, right?" 
SAM: Sure. Sure. 
MATT: "Cool. Great. Do you want it or not?" 
MARISHA: What else is in the murder bag? 
LAURA: Did you give her the croissant already? 
LIAM: What do you have that's blood-free? 
MATT: She puts her hands up. 
MARISHA: Oh yes, I gave it-- Oh, here. 
MATT: Smears it on her face again without noticing. 
TALIESIN: Oh god. 
MARISHA: Croissant. 
MATT: "Oh my goodness, thank you so much." Grabs it and starts eating it, and you can see the blood marks around it. (groaning in disgust) 
LIAM: Looks like jam. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: "Unique flavor." 
SAM: Anything else in that box? 
MATT: "Oh. Oh god. There is..." She just reaches in. This odd piece of folded black silk. It's about this big. Almost like a pocket square, and is like, "This is... Wait, I had this written down. This is... Ha-ha, this one's weird. This is a hole." 
SAM: Portable hole. 
LAURA: Ah! 
TRAVIS: What? 
LAURA: What do you mean it's a hole? 
TALIESIN: A whole what? 
MATT: "Watch this. Stand back, stand back, stand back." You all stand back, and she goes, "It's not enough room!" She gets up and walks around and starts pushing some things out of the way to make space. Unfolds it and lays it out onto the ground. You watch as it lays down, and it just looks like she laid it down. She goes. Puts her hand in, and you just watch her hand vanish into darkness. 
TALIESIN: What the actual fuck? 
LAURA: Where does it go? 
MATT: "I don't know, but it's pretty cool." 
LAURA: You don't know where it goes? 
MATT: "The person who handed this to me had a murder-- There might be a body in there. I don't know." 
ASHLEY: Can we look inside? 
SAM: How wide is the hole? 
MATT: The hole would be... Let me look. 
SAM: Just diameter. 
MATT: Indeed. It's about six feet in diameter. 
TRAVIS: This is amazing. 
SAM: Wow. Should we look? 
LAURA: How deep is the hole? 
MARISHA: We have to go in the hole. 
SAM: ♪ How deep is your hole? ♪ 
TRAVIS: I mean, it seems a little strange. How much do you want for it? 
MATT: "I'd say put it at 1,500." 
TRAVIS: 1,500! Fuck! 
MARISHA: 1,500? 
TRAVIS: I want it, though! 
MATT: "Yeah, why?" 
SAM: Does it go somewhere? 
TRAVIS: Yes! Well, kind of. 
LIAM: It's reusable, and you store things in it? 
MATT: "Sure." 
LIAM: You don't go through it, though? You don't slap it on a wall and go through that wall? 
MATT: I don't think it creates doorways or anything, but you can put something in it and then pick it up and take it with you. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to jump in. 
LAURA: Can you reach the bottom of the hole? 
MATT: Fearne jumps into the hole and vanishes into darkness. 
LIAM: Fearne, what do you see? 
MATT: Fearne, you fall about 10 feet or so before you land onto what sounds like a hard surface. 
LIAM: That's promising. 
LAURA: Are you okay, Fearne? 
SAM: Can she hear us? 
ASHLEY: Give me just a moment. Okay. Flame. Caleb's Produce Flame so that I have some lights. 
MATT: Okay. As you Produce Flame, it lights up the space around you and it was in darkness previously. 
ASHLEY: That's not really the right-- Whatever. (laughter) 
MATT: Produce Flame. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: It's Caleb's now. 
LIAM: That was a workaround cantrip. 
TRAVIS: Caleb's Produce Flame. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
MATT: Yeah, so within the space, you create the fire, and looking around you, it's like you're just sitting in a large, 10-foot cylinder about six feet wide. On the ground around you, you can see there's a shirt thrown there. There's a couple of shortswords, it looks like there is a broken wooden chest that the lid is off and there's a couple copper inside of it. Looks like a bunch of stuff was just thrown in here or the important stuff was emptied before it was shucked onto this shop. 
TRAVIS: Fearne, stay in there! Now, what happens if we fold it up again? 
MATT: "Watch!" She pulls it and drags it off the ground. 
TRAVIS: Nice. 
MATT: And it just becomes silk. 
TRAVIS: Cool. 
SAM: But Fearne's in there! 
LAURA: Fearne! 
LIAM: Can she breathe? 
MATT: "I don't know." 
LAURA: Put her back out! Put her back out! 
MATT: "You said to show! You said to show you! I didn't know! Okay, fine, fine! Put it in! Ah, ah!" 
TRAVIS: Fearne? 
SAM: Are you alive? 
MATT: There is no answer. 
ASHLEY: (fake screaming) 
TRAVIS: There it is. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: What happened when we folded it up? Come out of there! 
ASHLEY: I don't know. I was just-- 
LAURA: Could you breathe? 
ASHLEY: I think so. I didn't even notice. Did I notice? 
MATT: I mean, everything went quiet for a second and then it came back, you could breathe, you were fine. 
ASHLEY: Can you guys see me? 
SAM: No. 
LIAM: Nope. 
TALIESIN: No. 
SAM: Can you see us? 
ASHLEY: No. 
MATT: Actually, looking up, you can see through the hole and see above looking down. 
LAURA: But we can't see her? 
ASHLEY: Yes? 
MATT: You can't see her. 
ASHLEY: I can see you guys. (laughter) 
MARISHA: It's a one-way mirror. 
TRAVIS: 1,500. 
TALIESIN: This seems both intensely useful and intensely dangerous at the same time. 
LAURA: I love this. Think about if we're ever in a bind or one of us is in trouble. 
SAM: Or we have a lot of stuff to carry. 
LAURA: Any of it. 
TRAVIS: You can't stay in there forever. 
LAURA: No, but you'd be able to be in there for a couple minutes. 
LIAM: Think how easy it would've been to carry that statue. 
MARISHA: I was just thinking that. 
TALIESIN: All right, let's get you out of there. 
MATT: She just jumped out, actually. 
TALIESIN: Oh wow. Yeah, wow. 
LIAM: Mirthfully. 
LAURA: 1,500, huh? 
TRAVIS: How much gold does everybody have? Shout it out. You start, Ashton. 
TALIESIN: Seven gold. 
LAURA: You start, Chet. 
TRAVIS: Me? 
MARISHA: You have more than seven gold. We just got paid. 
LIAM: You got 1,000 from the gig. 
MARISHA: Exactly. 
TALIESIN: I was just curious if anyone was paying attention. 
TRAVIS: 800. 
MARISHA: 500. A little over. 
LIAM: 500! 
TALIESIN: 1,000 something. 
LAURA: 700. 
TRAVIS: What about you? 
MARISHA: He gives all of his money to Ashton. 
SAM: I have no money. 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LAURA: That's why Ashton's got 1,000. 
TRAVIS: We could get it. Do we have a Bag of Holding? 
SAM: We don't. 
LAURA: No. 
TALIESIN: We don't. 
SAM: I wonder if we could cut this and make him put it into me. Then we could put stuff into me forever. 
TRAVIS: I think you'd drop it in there, fill it up, and then you'd just hold it. 
TALIESIN: If you swallow too hard, you're just going to end up in there. It's going to get very weird. 
LAURA: Yeah, I don't want to... What if it disintegrates? 
TRAVIS: Just don't put it into a Bag of Holding. 
LAURA: What if we put all of that stuff in there-- 
TALIESIN: 1,500, huh? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "Yeah." 
TALIESIN: All right. 
LAURA: I feel like we could just fold it up and put it in a pocket. 
ASHLEY: I think we need it. 
SAM: I love the idea of you shoving stuff down my gullet. 
TALIESIN: How much does everybody want to put in? 
LIAM: If everybody throws in 215, that'll get us there. 
LAURA: All right, let's do it. 
LIAM: So you double that. 
TALIESIN: I'll double that. 
MARISHA: Let's do it. 
SAM: Will you throw in that $30 horn? 
MARISHA: And jumped into the hole. 
ASHLEY: Or, or. 
TRAVIS: Plus croissant! 
SAM: Or? 
ASHLEY: You throw in the Butcher Bib. 
MATT: Make a persuasion check, Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Going big, going big. This is it. This is the one. (dice hits the floor) 
SAM: Jesus. (imitating dice hitting floor) 
ASHLEY: Oh, yes! Okay, wait, hold up. 
TALIESIN: That was a sound. 
ASHLEY: 22. 
SAM: Oh wow. 
MATT: Okay! Marwa goes, "(sighs) Yeah, under the condition that you don't tell anybody where you got it, because I don't want it to be attached to anybody who got murdered, okay?" 
ASHLEY: Of course. 
MATT: "Deal. Here." She takes the bib and throws it into the hole and then folds it up. 
TRAVIS: That's a deal, y'all. 
MARISHA: Awesome! 
MATT: "All right." 
TRAVIS: 215? Okay. 
ASHLEY: It's a deal. 
LAURA: Do we want the horn? Did you also want the horn? 
SAM: Did we also get the horn? 
LAURA: Do we need the horn? 
MATT: No. Horn's 30 gold. 
SAM: Aw, okay. What would we ever need it for? What's the range? Do you know how far you can blow? 
MATT: "I mean..." 
TALIESIN: 530 gold. 
ASHLEY: 215 each you said? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, 215. 
TALIESIN: 530 for me, which means-- 
MATT: Within 600 feet. 
LAURA: Oh, 600 feet. 
MARISHA: Oh, then no. 
SAM: 600 feet's pretty good! 
MATT: No other creatures hear the sound of your horn. 
LIAM: I'll get it myself. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
LIAM: I'll get it myself. 
TRAVIS: Smart. 
MATT: "Okay. Great. Man, cleaned me out. Great." 
SAM: Do you happen to have-- I'm just going to run through it, a gem worth 50 gold, powdered silver worth 100 gold, a jeweled horn, any of these things? Ooh, how about a propeller? 
MATT: "I'll tell--" 
SAM: Like a fan sort of a thing. 
MATT: "I do not." 
SAM: Or a telescope! 
MATT: Telescope I can get you. 
SAM: Like a looking glass. 
MATT: You probably know somebody who can get the propeller. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: "I can get you a telescope. I can get you... I can glue gems to that horn I just sold you." 
SAM: Don't know if that'll work. 
MATT: "And silver powder I can do." 
SAM: You can do silver powder? 
TALIESIN: Oh, and health potions. I suppose if there's any healing potions, anything like that, you got any? 
MATT: "I got two regular healing potions." 
TALIESIN: How much? 
MATT: "100 gold for the lot." 
TALIESIN: I'll take it. 
MATT: "All right. Here you go." 
TALIESIN: Excellent. 
TRAVIS: Marwa, we should get a free Subway card or something. We shop here so often. 
MATT: "You shopped here twice." (laughter) 
LAURA: Yeah, but we bought a whole lot each time. 
MATT: "You have! I'm very appreciative." 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "I'll remember that." 
TALIESIN: I'm good. 
MATT: "So come back next week, come back the week after that, maybe I'll have some more things, maybe I won't. Maybe we'll break some more plants and hide some more murder stuff, who knows?" 
LAURA: Exciting times. 
TALIESIN: Love a murder. 
SAM: Can someone buy me 100 gold worth of powdered silver? 
LIAM: Do you have that? 
MARISHA: Look at Ashton. 
MATT: "Yeah." 
LIAM: You do? 
MATT: "Yeah, got a big ol' batch of it." 
TRAVIS: What do you need powdered silver for? 
LIAM: Why don't you ask Ashton to use your money to buy you silver? 
MARISHA: Exactly. 
SAM: Ashton? 
TALIESIN: Yes? 
SAM: Do you mind? 
TALIESIN: Do I mind what? 
SAM: Buying me some powdered silver? I forget what spell it's for. 
TALIESIN: Some powdered silver? 
SAM: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Please? 
SAM: Of course, pretty please with silver on top. 
TALIESIN: I'm just trying to be a dick. Yeah, of course you can have 100 gold worth of powdered silver. It's your money. Shit. I just spend it. a back side room and you hear rummaging and pushing past some things, and hits her foot and is like, "Ah!" 
LAURA: While she's back there, can I peek over the desk and see what's in that box that she shoved? 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
TRAVIS: I'll assist. 
TALIESIN: A human head. 
LAURA: Who wants to guide me? Anybody? 
SAM: Oh, Guidance. 
ASHLEY: Guidance! 
SAM: I'm trying to figure out what this powdered silver I wanted was for. 
LAURA: Wow. Wow. 
TALIESIN: Well, now you got it! So hope you're happy. 
LAURA: Wow. 
LIAM: Tell us? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I want to know. How bad is it? 
LAURA: Nine. 
SAM: Oh. 
ASHLEY: With Guidance? 
TRAVIS: Was that with advantage? 
LAURA: With Guidance. I rolled a one and a seven. 
MATT: Yeah, so no clue. Right as you're like, "I think it's--" She comes around the corner and is like, "Okay, here we go! Got you. There's 100 gold worth of powdered silver right there for you." 
SAM: Thank you. 
MATT: "Little tin person." 
TALIESIN: I think we're pretty good. Pretty good? 
MARISHA: I think we're good. 
SAM: Super good. 
MATT: "Great. Orange slice?" 
MARISHA: Ooh, yes! 
LIAM: Ooh, citrus. 
LAURA: Thank you. 
MATT: "There was just one." 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: "Thank you guys!" 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Always a pleasure. 
ASHLEY: Bye, Marwa! 
MATT: "See you next week!" 
TRAVIS: You jumped on that shit. 
LAURA: I can't spit it out. 
MARISHA: I'll bring you a croissant. 
ASHLEY: Love Marwa. 
LIAM: Look at me. 
TRAVIS: She loved it. It was worth it. 
MARISHA: Did she love it? 
TRAVIS: We got a good deal because of the croissant. 
MARISHA: All right. 
TRAVIS: You did good. 
MARISHA: I hope so, I was trying to... All right. 
TALIESIN: What's left other than I'm going to want to stop at home to apparently pick up a propeller? 
LIAM: What? 
SAM: Oh, yeah. 
LAURA: Oh, we need tattered cloaks. We need to get some tattered cloaks. 
TALIESIN: Might have that back at home, right? 
MATT: Tattered cloaks can be acquired relatively easily. It's not a huge issue, especially over in your part of town. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LAURA: All right. 
TALIESIN: I'm ready to get out of town at that point. 
LAURA: Yeah, we'll get that then head out. 
TRAVIS: We're doing an airship? 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: Skyship. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
LAURA: Skyship? 
SAM: I think it's skyship. 
LIAM: Ska. 
MATT: It's skyship. 
TALIESIN: Ska-ship. 
MATT: There you go. 
TRAVIS: Ska. 
MATT and TALIESIN: (ska vocalizing) 
LIAM: ♪ ("Spiderwebs") ♪ (chuckling) 
TALIESIN: Ska-ship. 
MATT: So what else? Anyone doing anything? 
MARISHA: No, I think we're just getting cloaks. 
LAURA: Oh, we do need to get some food. I mean, we don't have to... 
MATT: We can deal with that when we get there. 
MARISHA: Rations, food. If we walk by Zhudanna's place. 
LAURA: Yeah, we should just-- 
MARISHA: We drop off another bag of 10 gold to Zhudanna. 
MATT: Okay. She's blown away at the generosity, and she's like, "I just don't know how to express how thankful I am. Thank you all so much." 
LAURA: I feel like she gets older sounding every time we stop by. 
LIAM: She literally does. 
MARISHA: She might die. 
MATT: That is literally how it works. 
TALIESIN: That's how it works. 
MARISHA: How is Zhudanna doing? 
LAURA: It's only been a week! 
MATT: She's fine, she looks the same. 
MARISHA: She looks the same? 
MATT: She looks the same. It's fine. 
MARISHA: I just look into her eyes and I tell her: Goodbye, Zhudanna. 
MATT: "What's wrong? Are you all--" 
MARISHA: I just wanted to have this moment before we leave. 
LAURA: Laudna. 
MARISHA: What? It's just you never know. 
LAURA: Goodbye for a while. We're heading out of town for a little bit, but I'm sure we'll be back. 
MATT: "Both of you travel safe. I look forward to us crossing paths again." 
TRAVIS: Tell your five-year-old you're going to die. 
MARISHA: I look forward to us crossing paths again as well. 
MATT: "Very well." 
MARISHA: Somewhere, somehow, someday, yes, you never know. 
LIAM: Roll a percentile die. (laughter) 
MATT: You guys are so awful. All right, you say your goodbyes to Zhudanna. 
MARISHA: Keep your door locked. 
MATT: Anything else? 
TRAVIS, LIAM, and LAURA: I'm good. 
TALIESIN: Just my place, and then I'm good. 
MATT: Okay, so you heading to the Krook House? Okay, you all clambered back down into the Fownsee Hollow, traveling through the continuously dark interior of the Core Spire, walking down somewhat ramshackle rope ladders, wood ladders, the rickety structures that twist and head further and deeper until you come to the colorful exterior of the patchwork Krook House. You step inside and you can see Anni Aughta is currently half napping on one of the tattered side couches. When you enter, you watch as she sits up and says, "What, what is it? Oh, hi." 
TALIESIN: Hi. 
MATT: "Where you been?" 
TALIESIN: Out, you? 
MATT: "In." 
TALIESIN: Fair. 
MATT: "Cool." Falls back asleep on the couch. 
TALIESIN: Thank you for that. 
MARISHA: The most punk conversation I've ever heard. 
ASHLEY: It was so good. 
MATT: Milo comes around the corner, having a small mug of hot water and is currently scratching their head. "Oh, hi." 
TALIESIN: Hi. 
MATT: "Where--? What's going on? Didn't realize we had a lot of company. Hi, everybody." 
LAURA: Hey, Milo. 
MATT: "Hi, good to see you again." 
TRAVIS: What's up? 
MATT: "Hi." 
TALIESIN: Couple things. 
MATT: "That's hot, that's hot." 
TALIESIN: That's hot. FCG is looking for a propeller. You might-- you don't happen to know if you have something propeller-ish hanging around? 
MATT: "I can fashion something. Give me like 30 minutes?" 
SAM: Sure, anyone else need stuff before? 
TALIESIN: Well, I figure we're also going to do a little rummaging through the clothing box, see if we can come up with some cloaks and stuff like that. We're going out of town for a little while again. 
MATT: "Wow, not used to you wanting to travel this much in succession." 
TALIESIN: Well, the-- 
MATT: "It's good for you, you've gotten into things." 
TALIESIN: Contract's up, so I'm going to take a little vacation. 
MATT: "Contract's up?" 
TALIESIN: Contract's up. 
MATT: "Well, it's about dang time." 
TALIESIN: It is about damn time. Yeah, yeah, so. 
MATT: "Look at this. You're making an honest rock out of him." (laughter) 
MATT: "Yeah, go out and gather what you need. Don't take any of my stuff." 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to stay in my little section of bullshit. 
MATT: "If you need to take my stuff, just let me know. About how big? This big, this big?" 
SAM: I was thinking in some circumstances I might be able to take off the saw blade and maybe have a gear that changes the direction and have it spin this way instead. So about the same size as the saw blade, but it's more of a propeller. 
MATT: "For?" 
LAURA: What are you going to do with the propeller? 
SAM: Well, in case I'm ever floating or something, and I need to go somewhere. 
LIAM: A propeller's like a windmill, right? 
SAM: Yeah, it's like a reverse windmill. 
ASHLEY: Like a boat propeller type of a thing? 
SAM: Yeah. 
MATT: "So this is for locomotion?" 
SAM: Yes, it's for locomotion. 
MATT: "I gotcha." 
SAM: Or maybe if I'm in water, I could use it to, because otherwise I'm in water, I'm a sinker. I'm a sinker, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Aren't we all? 
SAM: This might help me move around a bit. 
MATT: Milo goes back and grabs their work goggles, sets them up, gets the hooded lantern up above, gets the wick lit, lighting down to their workspace, and they start pulling out all their tools and implements and starting to stretch, heat, bend, twist, stretch, heat, and is in the process now of doing localized forging with this small tool that they have that has a very, very bright, very intense, like a handheld forge for small pieces of metal to heat. You gather the materials you need. 
TALIESIN: Some cloaks. 
MATT: You'll work on it. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, what do you guys want? 
LAURA: You got any fruit around here? We've been at this a while, I'm hungry. 
TALIESIN: We got food. 
MARISHA: We should get dinner after this, before we hit the hay. 
TALIESIN: I'm good with dinner after this. I could use a drink. 
TRAVIS: So casual about it. 
MATT: "How long are you going to be gone?" 
TALIESIN: I don't know, a little while. Bassuras. 
MATT: "All right." 
TALIESIN: Yeah. Hey. 
MATT: "What's up?" 
TALIESIN: I've been thinking. It's been a long time and maybe I'm just going a little soft, who hired us for that job? And what the fuck were we supposed to be stealing? I don't know why I've never even, haven't really given it a thought in a very long time, and I don't know why. 
MATT: "That one... I think that was just a vengeful smash and grab. We weren't given specific directions. We were just told to go in there and make a mess, grab things of worth. That's what I was told." 
TALIESIN: Insight check. 
SAM: On Milo? 
LAURA: Milo? 
LIAM: Not like this. 
LAURA: Not like this. 
TALIESIN: 20. 
MATT: 20? (gasps) 
LAURA: Oh... Milo! 
SAM: Oh my goodness, a D&D Beyond presents whisper. 
TRAVIS: That's an interesting insight check. 
MARISHA: What? Right, but what? 
SAM: Friends insighting each other. 
LAURA: Oh, I think Milo knows something Maybe they're trying to protect? 
TRAVIS: Whatever you do, don't look at Taliesin's face right now. 
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
LIAM: They seem pretty forthright to you. 
TALIESIN: Huh. 
MATT: "I'm trying to remember. I mean, whatever it is, it didn't go well." 
TALIESIN: Yeah. How long was I under, by the way? I mean, I was very out of it. I know, that I remember, but... how long did this take? 
MATT: "That's a whole 'nother story." 
TALIESIN: Or, I mean, you know, roughly, I get it. 
MATT: "Well, after you fell out, we..." (sighs) (laughter) 
TALIESIN: You can't show that, jesus! Please put that away before we're in trouble. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Please put that away! 
TRAVIS: What's happening? (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Too good. 
LIAM: Sorry. 
MATT: "It went poorly. I think Jeto was the one who was homing that particular job wherever the fuck they are now. But I think we were after something. They knew what it was. I wasn't in the know at the time. I was just there playing support, really." 
TALIESIN: Are you sure? 
MATT: "It feels weirdly fuzzy." 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: "What I do remember, I think we were all partially into this and then something, I don't know if we set off a trap or something just hit us with a wave of... I felt like it became a dream briefly. We all just ran, and we all didn't realize until we got outside that you had fallen and you were busted up pretty bad. So we grabbed you and we ran back here, and we didn't know what to do, and you know, at the time it was hard to tell if you were better suited for flesh and blood stitching and healing, or, you know, I'm a builder. I don't know. We weren't going to let you die there. So I did what I thought I could do with the meager understanding of whatever the hell you are." 
TALIESIN: And I'm grateful for it. 
MATT: "But you just, I took some golds, some brass, whatever metals I could find. I found some heavy bit of glass that I had been amassing for a separate project and just heated and melted it down, and you were clutching something at the time, something that you were-- You wouldn't let go of, and I had to pry it from your hands. It was a crystal vial about that long." 
TALIESIN: The fuck? 
MATT: "I couldn't figure out what it was, but it looked magical. It was this weird, grayish liquid. It had an odd sheen to it. When nothing else was working, I didn't know what else to do. So I just threw it in the gumbo, if you will, and poured the glass and sealed it up." 
LAURA: (whispers) Dunamancy. 
LIAM: Yes. 
MATT: "That's when you started to spark again. That's when something pulled you back. So it must have worked, whatever it was. I just thank whatever weird gods were looking down on you that day." 
TALIESIN: I'm going to be out of town for a little bit. Be extra careful for a little while. I've got a bad feeling. 
MATT: "Okay." 
TALIESIN: Just. Yeah, just be careful. 
MATT: "You too." 
TALIESIN: Not that you're going to, but if you hear from any of the old gang. I know you won't, but I don't know, something's weird. 
MATT: "All right, we'll lock it down. We'll play easy. We're used to laying low when we need to, so we'll just lay low." 
TALIESIN: Lay real low, lay underground. I'll see you soon. 
MATT: "Yeah." 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: "Don't fly into any other windows. There aren't any more of those whatever that was anymore." 
TALIESIN: Get close every now and then. 
MATT: "Hey, Letters!" 
SAM: Oh! 
MATT: "Finished!" (whooshes) 
SAM: Whoa! 
MATT: Catch it there in front. Looks like a solid function. You have no idea if it'll work or not, but you got a propeller. 
SAM: Awesome! Thank you, Milo. Want anything in return? 
MATT: "Keep this one alive." 
SAM: So far so good. 
MATT: "So far." 
SAM: So good. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "Yeah." (laughter) 
MATT: "All right." 
LAURA: Weren't we supposed to pick up some stuff for Milo before? Like bits and pieces, they had asked us to look for... Didn't you ask us to look for things for you? 
MATT: "Just keep an eye out for anything that seems interesting and fun to tinker with." 
LAURA: All right, all right. 
SAM: You want a bib full of blood? 
MATT: "There's plenty of shit there you can bring back, so just, yeah, you know what I like, you know what I like." 
TALIESIN: I do, I do. 
MATT: "I'll pay you back. Ooh, ooh." 
TRAVIS: What the fuck. 
TALIESIN: Let's get our move on. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: "All right." 
SAM: Great. 
MATT: "Bye everybody." 
SAM: Thank you. 
TRAVIS: See you, Milo! 
MATT: You all leave. Anni just goes, "Bye." 
MARISHA: Dinner at the Soot and Swill? Sit and Spin? 
LAURA: We're in the Lantern Spire. 
MARISHA: It's a bit of a journey. 
SAM: The Weary Way? 
MARISHA: Go across town. 
LAURA: The Weary Way is here. 
SAM: That's where we are. 
LAURA: Yeah, let's go to The Weary Way. 
MARISHA: All right. 
TALIESIN: That'll do. 
LAURA: Maybe we can get a table upstairs or outside or something. I just love being back in the city, let me tell you. 
MARISHA: Yeah, how are you doing with that? 
LAURA: I'm glad we'll be on a skyship soon. 
LIAM: You know what's funny about that, though? Is how good you are with people. Reading them and talking to them, and I understand the problem that presents, but it's a shame. I've spent a decent amount of time listening to some pretty good, so I'm not a speaker, but I've heard one or three. And you got it. 
LAURA: Thanks, Orym. 
MARISHA: She's very capable. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah, thank you. 
LIAM: So how about that apron full of blood? Who's wearing that? 
LAURA: Maybe Chet. 
MARISHA: (gasps) 
LAURA: Ooh, maybe you! 
MARISHA: Chet! It's for a melee, and not-- 
SAM: Slicing weapons. 
LAURA: It would be pretty cool, though. 
MARISHA: But Chet's not a bad idea. I know. Maybe we could do a little show? 
SAM: You bastard! He peeked! 
LAURA: (laughs) He peeked at it. 
SAM: He peeked! 
MARISHA: Oh my god. Oh my god, goddamn it! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Too crafty. 
TALIESIN: Cheater. 
MARISHA: Shadow box. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: So you gather up again in a nearby tavern. Get yourselves a memorably mediocre dinner. 
LAURA: We should do the-- If you want-- 
SAM: Yeah, we could do the little mind search into you. 
TALIESIN: Fuck it, let's do it. 
LAURA: I mean, I don't know if, you know-- 
SAM: You want to take some shots first? 
TALIESIN: Yes. 
LAURA: Yeah, you take some shots, it'll weaken your mind. 
TRAVIS: Is that how it works? 
LIAM: Is this weird to do? 
TALIESIN: I don't think that's how it works for me. 
LIAM: Do we want to take our food to-go up to the rooms? 
LAURA: Well, we're not in the-- 
LIAM: We're just doing it at the pub? 
SAM: We could stay here. 
LIAM: Okay. 
LAURA: We got rooms at the Spire. 
TALIESIN: Oh, okay. 
LIAM: Whatevs. 
SAM: Well then, we eat and go back to the Spire. 
LAURA: Okay, we're back at the Spire. 
MATT: Okay, you finish your meal. 
TRAVIS: Better than at the pub. 
MATT: A nice full belly, back past the Fatewalk, back to the Spire by Fire. The hearth inside is roaring and tall. The music and rabble and singing along to bad bardic music is comfortable when you arrive. You saddle up to your two rooms that you rented, and the rest of the evening is yours. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to put my hammer in the other room. 
LAURA: All right. Maybe sit down between us. 
SAM: Uh-huh. I'm seeing if I have anything that can boost this. 
LAURA: Maybe one of us can help stabilize his thoughts while the other one dives deeper and deeper. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, let's figure this out before I start to sober up. 
TRAVIS: Wait, you're putting your hammer in the other room? We're not all in the second room, right? 
TALIESIN: I don't want it anywhere near me for this. 
TRAVIS: I'll wait out in the hallway and just keep an eye out in case we're being followed. 
TALIESIN: At least keep it in the corner, at the very least. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to stand in front of the door, then. 
TALIESIN: That'll do. 
ASHLEY: Or if you're keeping the hammer in here, I'll stand in front of the hammer. 
TALIESIN: Perfect, just keep a hand on it. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Imogen, Guidance. 
LAURA: Oh, thank you. 
SAM: I will also Bond with you. I'll Bond with both of you. 
LAURA: Oh, that's wise! 
SAM: Just to sort of connect and check in and I will also grant you an extra bit of guidance that way. 
LAURA: Whoa. 
SAM: It's a d6, I believe. 
MATT: It is a d6, yeah. 
MARISHA: You're going to be great! 
LAURA: Yeah, this is great, this is great. 
MARISHA: If it ever gets uncomfortable, all you have to do is just say something. 
TALIESIN: It's uncomfortable, I'm saying it. 
MARISHA: Okay, well, I mean to an intolerable level. 
LAURA: All right. 
SAM: That's just a bonus action-- 
MARISHA: Is there anything that I can do? 
SAM: -- to bolster her, but then I can also guide myself on the next turn. 
MATT: Yeah. 
SAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: Do I need to make an environment? Do I need to like, just think good thoughts? Do I need to-- Ooh, I can make a happy yarn circle around you to symbolize? 
TALIESIN: Maybe we could just hold hands. 
SAM: Yarn circle sounds-- 
TALIESIN: I was literally kidding, but now that that's happening, I fucking-- 
MATT: Fair enough. 
TALIESIN: I hate this. 
SAM: All right, so do you want me to stabilize while you delve? You're good at delving. 
LAURA: Sure, and you're really good at stabilizing. 
SAM: Should I use Calm Emotions, or should I--? I'll still use Detect Thoughts, but I'll just be-- 
LAURA: I think so. Maybe-- Yeah, maybe you can, I bet you can, hold on. One is-- oh, they're both concentration, balls. 
SAM: It's all right. 
LAURA: Okay. 
SAM: We're going to double up our Detect Thoughts. 
LAURA: If it goes south, then you do Calm Emotions, and I'll keep it detecting. 
SAM: Sure, sure, okay. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Should we all hold hands? 
LAURA: Yeah, I'm holding his hands. 
SAM: All right, I'll hold your hands. 
LAURA: I'm holding her hand, I'm holding your hand. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
SAM: We're all holding hands. 
TALIESIN: We're holding hands, fine. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to summon Mister. 
SAM: Throw poop at them? 
ASHLEY: Just to have him there. 
SAM: Sure. 
MATT: (hoots) 
MARISHA: He really brings a calm in here. 
LAURA: Yes. 
TALIESIN: This is good. I was not feeling uncomfortable enough. Thank you, this is great. All right. Let's just do this shit. 
ASHLEY: He can run the hammer out of the room if he needs to. 
TALIESIN: No, no. 
LAURA: All right. 
TALIESIN: Let's just get it over with. 
MATT: All right, so what are you doing? 
LAURA: So we're casting Detect Thoughts. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: At the same time. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Pushing as deep as we can. 
LAURA: And asking him questions about what happened that night, tell us anything you remember. 
SAM: Well, yeah, we'll see what we get, and then we'll follow the thread. Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
MATT: And you're not resisting? 
TALIESIN: No. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: No. 
SAM: Do we have to--? 
MATT: Hmm? No. 
LAURA: Because he's not resisting. 
MATT: He's not resisting. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: So you push beyond a naturally strong barrier, towards the complicated personality that is Ashton. This sense of rusted gates opening before you, shaking as they let you in. That's the sort of emotional ride that you feel yourself being brought on as you begin to delve within Ashton. What questions do you ask? 
LAURA: What were you looking for in her house? 
TALIESIN: I don't know. 
LAURA: What was the last thing you remember? 
TALIESIN: I don't know. 
MATT: You don't know. 
TALIESIN: No, yeah. 
MATT: But you start to get flashes of memory, little (yelps) "Coming at--" "Shit!" 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: Just little flickers. 
LAURA: Awesome. 
MATT: You catch one image of a dark corner of a tavern, with a bunch of figures around table. You can just barely see the glasses of Milo glinting off some nearby lantern light. There's somebody else there in the group that you don't recognize, being like, "These shipments she's getting are timed. There's something to it. "I think tonight's our chance." (whoosh) (whoosh) More running through the streets. (panting) Where'd it--?" (whoosh) Back to darkness. (whoosh) Quietly creeping. The wood (creaks). Footsteps in the dark interior. To the right, you see this shape of a familiar white bust. (whoosh) Back to darkness. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: Do you push deeper? 
SAM: Yeah. 
MATT: You begin to sense, empathically from Ashton, a brewing anxiety. As you see, in a room that you don't recognize, what looks to be runes on the ground beginning to light up and glow. There is an instinct to run. Then it blinks back before that. You see a crate hidden off to the side. The wooden structure of it is pushed into a small store corner. And this is-- The anxiety is lessened; it's more of a quickened state of hurriedness. You see Ashton taking the hammer, and using the edge of it to crowbar open the top of this crate. As a voice behind's going, "Quick, quick, go! We don't have time!" (whoosh) Back to darkness. You see Ashton's perspective looking over his shoulder, and you see a woman with wild, tangled hair, and really dark makeup smeared across the eyes and the cheeks, wearing a ragged hide, who's currently going, "Quick, quick, quick, quick! Did you find it?" Then looks down, and the top of the crate is open, and Ashton's hand reaches in and rummages. You hear the sound of many glass things clinking. Pulls free and there is a singular glass vial in his hand. Not enough light to make out more details of it. This memory now begins to feed into the one you saw previously, as these dull red runes begin to glow in the chamber. Back to darkness. The next flash is the sky-- 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: -- and the edge of the balcony getting further and further away. 
LAURA: Calm him, calm him. 
SAM: Okay, I'll zoom out, and I'll cast Calm Emotions. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: I don't want him to experience this again. 
MATT: Darkness. And then flashes. "Oh god!" (whoosh) "Go, go, go, go!" (whoosh) "Shit, shit, g--!" "You fucked it up!" "Stop, it, let him--!" "He's dead, just leave him." 
TRAVIS: (gasps) 
MATT: (whoosh) "Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on!" You're just seeing shapes and movement, and blurred states shifting in and out. And then a bright light. Unfocused. These large, flickering shapes drifting in the air from the perspective. Like dust particles out of focus, just lightly, bleary eyed. Then a dark shape steps in front of it. The glasses pull away. (Milo) "You okay?" (snapping fingers) "No way." And a smile. And the spell ends. 
LAURA: (gasps) Are you all right? 
TALIESIN: I mean, hard to gauge? I'm still under Calm Emotions. 
SAM: You are, for a minute. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
SAM: But I can, if you're feeling all right, I can just get rid of it, so you can be clearheaded. 
TALIESIN: I mean, I don't know. I feel fine at the moment. 
LAURA and SAM: Yeah? 
SAM: I'll drop it? 
TALIESIN: I immediately run to the fucking wall, and start pounding it and pounding right into it. 
SAM: I can recast it, I'll just recast it. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Let him do it, let him do it. 
SAM: Yeah, all right. 
MATT: What'd you roll? 
TALIESIN: I rolled a that's a good 14. 
MATT: What's your spell DC? 
SAM: I used the single use one, so it's a 13. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: So yeah, the-- 
TALIESIN: 20, yeah. 
MATT: So the spell takes no effect. So you continue to do what you want to do. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm just going to give it a, give the wall a couple real good hits. 
MATT: You watch as the wood panel setup on this side of the tavern, which already is old, begins to crack, and splinter, and splinter further in, and you can see the fist marks where it's leaving behind where the wood is buckling inward, and you begin to see little smears of red left behind with each hit. 
LAURA: Ashton. 
MATT: A dark red purple. 
TALIESIN: And I sit down. 
MARISHA: (whispering) Is he raging? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm fine. 
MARISHA: (whispering) The splinters. 
TALIESIN: That's... interesting. 
LAURA: That's a lot to take in. 
SAM: Did you recognize anything that you hadn't remembered before? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. She had one of those crates in her office. 
LAURA: When? 
TALIESIN: Today. 
LAURA: I pull out the papers. 
TALIESIN: I mean, things have been-- for the last week, things just keep-- Mm, I don't know. 
LAURA: Did these make any more sense with the details that we know? The details about the shipments she's been getting? 
MATT: Specific about that? I mean-- The most you can make out with it. Roll an investigation check. 
LAURA: Oh god, I'm not good at this. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: I assist you! No, I'm just kidding. (laughter) 
LAURA: (hums) Oh, 19! 
MATT: 19. Very good. What you can best ascertain from this bit here, and I'm pulling out my notes here just to make sure I don't miss anything. There-- the crate that you saw, and the crate that was in there with the previous encounter, likely not the same crate. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
MATT: Separate shipments. Because the paperwork says that there are three shipments months apart that have been noticed to go through Hexum's manor. Crates are always the same size, and they stay with her for a short while before being picked up by an unrecognized figure. A courier, someone else. 
LAURA: Wasn't Lady Hexum also shipping a giant automaton? 
MATT: She had ordered one. 
LAURA: That's what Sylas got in trouble with. 
MATT: Cyrus, yeah. 
LAURA: Cyrus. (laughs) Different guy. 
TALIESIN: Okay. Okay. Okay. 
SAM: The woman in those visions you just had, the wild haired woman. Do you recognize her? 
TALIESIN: Is that Sally? 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: Sally? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. I recognize-- I know-- I know everybody, yeah. 
LAURA: Milo brought you back. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LAURA: I mean, fully. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. I mean, that's not a surprise. I had a quick talk with Milo before we headed out, and they-- I mean, they weren't lying, but they weren't right. There is just-- there's a hole, there's a hole. 
LAURA: Somebody did something. 
TALIESIN: I don't know. 
LAURA: What were those runes? 
TALIESIN: I don't know. Fuck, I'm going to have to find everybody, aren't I? 
SAM: Uh-huh. 
TALIESIN: Fuck! (sighs) 
LAURA: Are you all right leaving? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, for now, I'm going to-- I got to think about what to do. 
LAURA: All right. 
TALIESIN: I don't want to do anything stupid. 
LAURA: All right. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to get out of town, and clear my head. Fucking Bassuras bullshit. Yeah, yeah, why not? Fucking Bassuras. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: (annoyed exhale) 
SAM: Well, I mean, whenever you need help, we can do that again. Or if you wanted to reach out to any of your friends, maybe that's something that you could do at some point. 
TALIESIN: They're fucking gone. 
LAURA: I know what Sally looks like now. 
SAM and TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LAURA: Potentially try to contact her, yeah. 
SAM: Send her a message. 
TALIESIN: Well, the group of us met in Bassuras, maybe some of them are there. 
LAURA: Oh, yeah. 
SAM: Great! 
TALIESIN: That was a long time ago, but yeah, let's-- 
SAM: This is a good lead. 
TALIESIN: Let's just get the fuck out of here. 
LAURA: All right. 
MARISHA: While-- 
LAURA: Are you-- 
MARISHA: All that has been happening, I just went over and started mending the wall that he punched in a little bit. 
MATT: Okay. Takes about a minute each casting, so you're focusing, and-- 
MARISHA: Just while they're talking. 
MATT: Putting it up. 
ASHLEY: I bring the hammer over. You good? 
TALIESIN: Oh yeah. Yeah. Thank you. 
LAURA: Did that help-- Are you-- ? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LAURA: Was that information you wanted? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I don't like not knowing things. 
LAURA: Right, me neither. 
TALIESIN: Better to know things. Let's-- yeah, got to know some more. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: We'll figure it out. But yeah. Yeah, I'm pretty fucking angry. Let's figure out what the fuck happened. I'm putting it on the list. 
MARISHA: Good job. Both of you. 
TALIESIN: Thank you. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: If you want to learn more about yourself, just looking inward. 
MARISHA: I'm kind of curious. We've got several days on an airship to and fro, so-- 
SAM: We can do all kinds of stuff on there. 
TALIESIN: Let me tell you, we are going to a boring place. 
MARISHA: I think it sounds quite exciting, I don't know. 
TALIESIN: Ooh. 
LAURA: Well, I don't know about y'all, but I am exhausted. That was a long-ass day. 
SAM: Yep. 
MARISHA: It was. We got a lot accomplished. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: All right, you guys can go ahead for your long rest for the night. 
SAM and TALIESIN: Yes. 
MATT: Okay, if you haven't already marked it, you can mark Ashton as a trusted companion. 
SAM: Oh ho ho ho! 
LAURA: (gasps) Ooh, you've got another one! 
TRAVIS: Trusted companion. 
MARISHA: ♪ Gotta catch 'em all! ♪ 
LIAM: Quickity quick-- Go ahead. 
TALIESIN: I was going to say, you should take the apron, if you haven't thought about it. I think it would really suit you and look good. 
TRAVIS: I mean-- 
LAURA: Oh my gosh, little Chet with a bleeding apron on in addition to his fucking chisels. He'd look like a nightmare. 
LIAM: White werewolf, stained red. 
TRAVIS: With the speed that I work, you know, it would protect from splinters. (laughter) 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Which could be a bitch. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: I mean, I'll hold it for now, in case anybody comes-- 
SAM: Well, it's in the bag thing. It's in the hole. 
TRAVIS: I'll go sleep in the bag with it. 
LAURA: No, don't sleep in there. 
TALIESIN: Don't sleep in there. You don't know where it's been. 
TRAVIS: You don't know how to go. You're not the boss of me. 
TALIESIN: Well, then, please sleep in there. 
MATT: Do you sleep in the portable hole? 
TRAVIS: No! (laughter) 
LIAM: No, you die. 
TRAVIS: No, you die. You go home and you die. 
LIAM: I was going to say, quickity quick, when everyone has passed out, in the crook of Fearne's-- 
LAURA: Vagina. 
LIAM: -- knee. I will-- Yep, in the folds of Fearne's... pouch. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Marsupial pouch. 
LIAM: No, in the crook of her knee, everyone's asleep. I'll pull out the Sending Stone. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: And say: We're leaving Jrusar. Heading southeast. Following the Treshi thread further. You've been missed. Hope you're well. 
MATT: There's a brief pause before you get a little, "Hey, sorry. Was sleeping. Thanks. Miss you guys, too. Shit got kind of crazy here, too. Floating bar. I'll tell you later." 
LIAM: Zzz. 
MATT: (laughs) As you all eventually drift to sleep with a lot to think about, a lot to look forward to, and a skyship journey waiting for you in morrow, and more importantly, a batch of fresh-- 
LAURA: Fuck yes. 
MATT: -- Eshteross cookies. 
SAM: Yes. 
LIAM: Bat shit fresh. 
MATT: We're going to go ahead and finish there tonight. (cheering) 
MATT: We'll pick up there next week. 
TRAVIS: New map, baby, new map! 
TALIESIN and MARISHA: New map! 
ASHLEY: Dude! 
TALIESIN: New map. 
TRAVIS: We going! 
LIAM: We've got to start uncovering this section. This section, this section, this section. 
TALIESIN: Oh, random encounter, no! 
LAURA: This is a big continent. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
SAM: Hopefully next time we'll have Ashley back? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: Who knows? 
MATT: We should. 
ASHLEY: Fingers crossed. 
MATT: We should. 
TRAVIS: Let's go, let's go. 
LIAM: Come home, Fearne! 
MATT: Well-- 
LAURA: Come home, Fearne! 
MATT: Thank you all so much. Thank you for joining us. We love you very much, and is it Thursday yet? Good night. (cheering) 
ASHLEY: Not yet!