List of Transcripts

Contents

1 Pre-Show
2 Part I
3 Break
4 Part II


Pre-Show[]
MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. 
ALL: (garbled) We play Dungeons & Dragons! 
MATT: Indeed. Before we jump into our episode tonight, we do have some announcements to get through, beginning with our first sponsor of the night, the new video game Stray Gods. Sam. 
MARISHA: Stray Gods! 
SAM: Stray Gods is the first ever branching interactive role playing musical game coming to all platforms, including Steam, Humble Bundle store, XB One, Xbox Series X/S, PS4, PS5, and Switch. Play as Grace in a modern fantasy world where Greek gods live among us and use the power of a muse to find the truth behind your predecessor's death before time runs out. 
TRAVIS: Nope. 
SAM: Stray Gods: The Roleplaying Musical has a wild cast, including our very own Laura Bailey. 
LAURA: Hi! 
SAM: Ashley Johnson. 
LAURA: Heyo. 
SAM: And dear friends Troy Baker, Anthony Rapp, Anjali Bhimani, Mary Elizabeth McGlynn, and Rahul Kohli. (laughter) 
SAM: The fully interactive musical numbers were composed by Grammy-nominated Austin Wintory, Tripod and Eurovision Australia-- Oh, Tripod, comma, and Eurovision Australia's own Montaigne. 
MARISHA: Montaigne! 
LAURA: So talented. She's so talented. 
SAM: I, and you too I believe, saw a live concert of songs from the game, and it was astounding. 
TRAVIS: So good! 
SAM: It was really good. Combining musical theater with video games and tabletop, no two playthroughs are the same. Your choices change the story, lyrics, and melodies. Speaking of which, I couldn't resist writing my own song to honor this game. 
LAURA: I thought you were going to take this announcement so seriously because we were in it. 
SAM: I did! I've been doing a good job! 
LAURA: I'm really excited. 
ASHLEY: You're doing great. 
SAM: But I wanted to do-- 
TRAVIS: A good job. (laughs) 
SAM: It's a musical, I got to sing a song. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: So I wrote a song about it. 
LAURA: Can't wait. 
SAM: In the Broadway style. Hit it. (jazz music) ♪ The music in Stray Gods Doesn't sound like this at all ♪ ♪ It's kind of jazzy, sure ♪ ♪ But in a very cool style ♪ ♪ I'm a brilliant singer ♪ ♪ And my songs are always fire ♪ ♪ But you'll have to trust me ♪ ♪ Their music is much better than mine ♪ 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
SAM: ♪ Stray Gods would be the first to admit ♪ ♪ That Stray Gods makes this song sound like shit ♪ ♪ Oh, Stray Gods, Stray Gods, Stray Gods, Stray Gods ♪ ♪ God, god, god, god, stray, stray, stray, stray ♪ ♪ S-T-R-A-Y G-O-D-S ♪ (laughter) 
SAM: Take charge of your fate with Stray Gods: The Roleplaying Musical out August 10th for PC, Xbox One, and Series X/S, Play Station 4 and 5, Nintendo Switch. Check it out at bit,ly/wishliststraygods. 
TRAVIS: This is not a song from the game. 
LAURA: Not at all. 
SAM: This is exactly how it does not sound. 
LAURA: No, it isn't. (laughter) 
SAM: ♪ Stray Gods ♪ Back to you, Matt. 
MATT: Oh boy. 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
MATT: Well done, Sam. 
SAM: Now you know what it doesn't sound like. 
MATT: It is. It's important to have a basis of comparison. 
SAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: (whispering) Stray Gods. 
MATT: (laughs) Set the bar low so it can only climb from there. Our second sponsor tonight is Roll & Play: The Game Master's Fantasy Toolkit. It is a GM's secret weapon. 
SAM: Oh man. 
MATT: Haboo! 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
MATT: This book from Role & Play Press contains hundreds of random tables and content generators to help bring your fantasy adventures to life. 
ASHLEY: Oh that's cool! 
MATT: World building, it's got a whole chapter. Look at that. And it's never been easier, as the random tables within the book enable you to generate unique NPCs and memorable settings with just a few rolls of the dice. 
ASHLEY: That's fun. 
MATT: There are also encounters for every location, critical hit and miss tables, tons of creative ideas for loot and rewards. So when your players next ask you an unexpected question, you'll always have an answer. The Game Master's Fantasy Toolkit is available now at rollandplaypress.com. 
TRAVIS: Roll & Play! 
MATT: Exactly. (laughter) 
MATT: You can also find loads of other fantastic RPG resources, including character creation tools, maps, notebooks, and more. All designed to make running an RPG that little bit easier. All orders made in July come with a free one-shot taken from their book, One-Shot Wonders-- 
TRAVIS: Cool! 
MATT: -- which publishes later this year and contains over a hundred session ideas for your D&D games with all the information for each session on two pages or less. Easy to consume, easy to find, super awesome. Go and check out rollandplaypress.com and use discount code BELLSHELLS10-- 
TRAVIS: Ooh! 
LIAM: Fancy. 
MATT: -- to get 10% off your Roll & Play Press order today. 
TRAVIS: Nice! 
LAURA: Look at the little corners. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, the corners are really rockin'. 
LAURA: That's really pretty! 
MATT: It's so well put together. It really is. So, I'm going to do that. Marisha, you got something to talk about. 
MARISHA: You guys. Join us for the finale of Candela Obscura, Chapter 1 next Thursday, July 27th at 7:00pm Pacific on Twitch and YouTube. This is the finale of the journey with the Vassal and the Veil. Ugh, I love them! 
LIAM: Also, a musical this time, right? 
MARISHA: Not a musical. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Not a musical. 
MARISHA: No jazz. Can the light guide this secret order, or will the horrors that bleed into the world prove too much for the Vassal and the Veil? 
MATT: That one. 
TRAVIS: (whispers) Vassal and the Veil. 
MARISHA: (whispers) Vassal and the veil. Find out next week. 
SAM: Oh! 
MATT: (mischievous laughs) 
MARISHA: We have truly loved telling this new story. 
LAURA: It's a scary game. 
MARISHA: It's (jump scare yell)! 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: So be on your toes! You never know what will happen. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Oh boy. 
MARISHA: Game starts now. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MARISHA: That's what I keep saying. 
TRAVIS: Ah! 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: We truly have loved telling-- (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I want to change seats. 
MARISHA: Nah, you're committed. We truly loved telling this new story and exploring this new world with you, and we hope that it inspires you to set out on your own investigations within the world of Candela Obscura. 
TRAVIS: (whispers) Candela Obscura. 
MARISHA: And you can-- Candela Obscura is the new Uk'otoa. And you can do that with our Candela Obscura Quickstart Guide. 
TRAVIS: (whispers) Quickstart Guide. 
MARISHA: You can explore even more at darringtonpress.com/candela. (echoing whispers of "Candela") 
MARISHA: Matt. 
MATT: Speaking of games, come play games with us at GenCon! 
TRAVIS: GenCon! 
MATT: August 3rd through the 6th. We'll be debuting and selling limited copies of Queen by Midnight, the amazing battle royale deck building game by our own incredible Kyle Shire-- (cheering) 
MATT: -- where you play as powerful princesses clashing to be crowned the next Midnight Queen. 
TRAVIS: Awesome. 
MARISHA: It's so cool. 
MATT: It's actually really epic, beautiful, a lot of fun to play. Hope you get a chance to check it out. Also, you might get a first look at Daggerheart, our forthcoming fantasy tabletop RPG system that lends itself to long form campaign play, character advancement and creation. We've been hard at work on this for a long time. Super excited about it. I think it's pretty cool. I think some people might like it, so. We'll also be running games of Dressed to Kill, the assignment included in the Candela Obscura Quickstart Guide for folks that come by. So please, find all the details at darringtonpress.com and come by and say hello to our lovely Darrington Press team at Booth 2835. That's Booth 2835. 
TRAVIS: (creepy whispers) 2835. (echoing whispers of "2835") 
MATT: 2835. (echoing whispers of "2835") (laughter) 
LAURA: Also for Matt-- 
MATT: Also for me. We'll also see you this Saturday-- (laughter) 
MATT: -- July 22nd at San Diego Comic-Con. (cheering) 
MATT: Join us in Ballroom 20 for our fireside chat. 
LAURA: That's so soon! 
MARISHA: Yeah, it is. 
MATT: What? 
LAURA: Nothing. (laughter) 
MATT: I get distracted easy. Join us in Ballroom 20 for our fireside chat and short Q&A for Critical Role, and then find us in room 6A to chat about the making of Candela Obscura with a few wonderful and lovely guests. 
SAM: (creepy whispers) Guests. 
MATT: Hopefully see some of you folks there. 
SAM: (creepy whispers) There. (stifled laughter) 
MATT: I believe that concludes our announcements. 
SAM: God, I hope so. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: So let's go ahead and jump into tonight's episode of Critical Role. (excited cheering) 
♪ Critical ♪♪ Critical ♪♪ It's Thursday ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ One-by-one, we climb until we reach the top. ♪♪ Two-by-two, we fall. ♪ 
LAURA: ♪ Will we meet our end or meet our destiny? ♪♪ Hold your breath and roll! ♪ 
MATT: How do you want to do this? 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ Who knows what will happen? ♪♪ He might! ♪♪ But one thing's for sure, ♪♪ We never give up on the fight! ♪ 
LIAM: ♪ From the healer ♪♪ To the renegade ♪ 
MATT: ♪ We all share the same goal ♪
MATT and TALIESIN: ♪ Adding more allies ♪♪ Taking more chances ♪ 
SAM: ♪ Hold your breath and roll ♪ 
MARISHA: You can certainly try. 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ It's Thursday night. ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ From darkness, our friendship will rise ♪♪ But one thing's for sure: ♪♪ We never give up on the fight ♪♪ Oh, get ready, ♪♪ Get ready, ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪
(flames whooshing) 

Part I[]
(laughter) 
ASHLEY: Sorry. 
TRAVIS: Johnson, again. 
SAM: Zum, zum, zum! 
MATT: And welcome back. (laughs) 
MARISHA: What did you say? 
ASHLEY: I said "Kentucky Route Zero." 
MARISHA: I love that game. 
MATT: It's a great game. It's a great game. 
ASHLEY: Okay, sorry. 
MARISHA: We're so-- 
MATT: You should play Kentucky Route Zero. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Welcome back. (chuckling) 
MATT: So, last we left off: Bells Hells reunited in the aftermath of the Apogee Solstice. The red moon Ruidus remains hung in the air still, locked in orbit with the rest of Exandria. In searching for the location of some of your chased antagonists, discovered some of them may not be on Exandria anymore. However, sending some of your new allies off to their own ventures, circling your wagons a bit and discussing what you found, there are some interesting hanging threads to be pursued. There are some artifacts from Ludinus' past that have some intriguing possibility should their purpose and reason be discovered. There are some scattered elements of previous allies, some known, some not. The discovery that Keyleth remains extremely, seemingly irrevocably wounded from the encounter in Marquet when all of this went down. As you prepped yourselves in Jrusar, you decided to pay her a visit. In doing so, transported yourselves via the scepter that is carried by Imogen to Zephrah, the city of the Air Ashari in Tal'Dorei. As you arrive here within the wind slung city at the top of the nearby mountain range, there you look about you and see the treescape, the beautiful mountain tops, the natural abodes carved or grown from the surrounding rock and earth, and take in what for most of you is a beautiful new arrival, but for you, Orym, is home. 
LIAM: This is that place I'm always talking about. 
LAURA: This is beautiful. 
LIAM: Sight for sore eyes. 
SAM: You grew up here? Spend your whole life here? 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: Wow. 
MARISHA: All the cliff edges feel very precarious. 
SAM: No guardrails or nothing. 
MARISHA: No, there's not. Feels like a safety hazard. 
LIAM: Letters, are you able to get around here? 
SAM: Oh, I mean, with some help, I guess, right? I guess there's not a lot of stairs and rails, so. 
LIAM: Do you have climbing feet? 
SAM: I could work on that, or I could just grapple hook myself to Fearne and she could grip drag me around. 
ASHLEY: Absolutely. I'll just billy goat you up. Mountain goat. 
SAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: (sniffing) What am I detecting on the very present winds up here? 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
TRAVIS: Oh, first one of the night. 
SAM: This is everything. 
LAURA: Right away. 
TRAVIS: Let's go! 
SAM: What does the air smell like? 
TRAVIS: Seven! (laughter) 
SAM: Air. 
MATT: Total of seven? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. With advantage. 
MATT: Oof. Woo! Wow. What you do pick up is a heavy barrage of natural earthy scents, firewood burning and some distant remaining echo of someone's warmed home. You catch the smell of withered corn husks. You're not quite sure where that's coming from. You may just be hungry. It's about that moment that the wind picks up louder and louder. 
TRAVIS: Mm, corn. 
MATT: A massive gust of wind slams right into your group. I need everyone to make a strength saving throw for me. 
TRAVIS: Oh no! We should have expected that. 
MARISHA: I was talking about this. 
TRAVIS: We should have expected that. 
SAM: A mighty wind. 
MARISHA: Ooh. 
TRAVIS: Really, bro? 
TALIESIN: Hey! 
MARISHA: Ooh. Ouchies. 
MATT: Ashton. 
TALIESIN: 20. 
MATT: 20, all right. Orym? 
LIAM: I rolled a 16, but now it would be a good time to use my new battle maneuver, and I'll add a little Zephran Heart to it. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Ooh! 
LIAM: Adding six, so that is a 22. 
TRAVIS: Zephran Heart? 
MATT: 22. 
LAURA: Zephran Heart. 
MATT: Yeah. He designed a battle maneuver. Imogen. 
LAURA: I rolled eight. 
MATT: Eight, okay. Fearne? 
ASHLEY: 16. 
MATT: 16, okay. 
SAM: 16 here as well. 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: I rolled a two for zero. 
MATT and SAM: (laugh) 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: You don't weigh a lot. 
TRAVIS: Seven. 
MATT: All right. As the heavy gust of wind-- 
MARISHA: Leaf in the wind. 
MATT: -- slams into your troop, Ashton, you put your hammer down and hold yourself still in place. Orym, you put your shield to dig into the ground. Let the wind glide past you, blowing your hair back. FCG, you dig yourself and clutching onto Orym and keeping yourself present. You, Imogen, concentrate and let the wind glide off of you as you put up a temporary shield to let it push away. 
LAURA: I rolled an eight. 
MATT: Oh, I misremembered. 
LAURA: She rolled better than me. 
MATT: That's what it was. You rolled better. You rolled a 16, you said? 
ASHLEY: I rolled a 16. Just let the wind blow on by. 
MATT: You take it in as a natural spirit. 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah! 
MATT: Feeling the energies and magics of the surrounding landscape, which even being here a moment, feel very pure and untainted. You let the wind blow through your hair and take the music video moment to enjoy. 
ASHLEY: Wow! 
MATT: You three, unfortunately, as the wind gust hits, you all are thrown off of your feet, slam onto your backs, and glide towards the back edge of the cliff where you first arrived. As you begin to slide back a bit and you turn around and see what's going on, two shadows swoop in from the back towards your currently gliding backward friends. 
LIAM: Two total? 
TRAVIS: This is it, Laudna. Death is coming for us. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to head straight towards the group-- 
MARISHA: Not again! 
TALIESIN: -- that are sliding off the cliff. 
MATT: Okay. So you rush over. As you begin to run over in their direction, these two shapes glide up. You can see there's these winged contraptions like gliders that sit off the side with foot holds in the front as they (whoosh) both off the edge of the cliff and down, landing right at the tip of where this outcropping ends, stopping right where the wind pushes the three of you to a halt. You're not thrust off the side, you're just held on your back prone. As this happens, you also see three other figures rush from around the nearby area. Many of them armed, holding up weaponry and shouting. One of them ends up yelling out in your direction, "What is your business?" 
LIAM: Coming home. Sorry. 
MARISHA: I think I broke my tailbone. 
LAURA: Oh no. 
MATT: As the two gliders come to rest, you can see the armored figures standing there off to the side. They look over at you and immediately any sort of look of tension or aggression fades. They step off for a second and give a respectful nod. You recognize a number of these folks as various members of the village who are part of nearby guardianship of the mountaintops itself, but the one that immediately catches your attention as she rushes from one of the nearby structures, you see the long blonde hair that ends in a bulb-like tie with a woven burst of red flowers tethered that flows behind. You see the gentle leather breastplate or so and the long flowing robe that goes from behind. Maeve. Rushes up to you and goes, "Orym?" 
LIAM: (happy exhale) I just leap and go into full hug. 
MATT: As you leap towards her, she gestures with her hand and the wind buffets you a little bit so you don't tackle her with all of your strength and she catches you. 
LIAM: Hey, hey, hey, hey. 
MATT: "Hey, oh my goodness. It's good to see you." 
MATT: You see this half-elven woman, about thirties or so, look, leaning down on one knee and giving this smile of surprise and welcomeness towards Orym. 
LIAM: Sorry. Guys, this is my sister. 
SAM: Sister! 
MARISHA, ASHLEY, LAURA: (oohing) 
TALIESIN: What? I... 
SAM: What? 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
SAM: Wha-- 
LAURA: Can I get up? 
LIAM: Oh, sorry. These are my friends. This is Bells Hells. We're Bells Hells. 
MATT: "We've heard a little bit. I'm so sorry! We didn't expect arrivals and things have been a little tense as of late, so we just had to be sure. Sorry about the (whoosh) you know? (chuckles)" 
LAURA: Totally-- Totally fine. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah. On edge. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "Anyway, welcome to Zephrah, Bells Hells, Orym." 
LIAM: How is the Tempest? 
MATT: "She's resting. Her and a number of other of our warriors. The conflict of the Red Center didn't lend itself to extended victory. Yeah. But it's good to see you. It's good to see that you're safe. We had no idea where everyone went. Everything just kind of got a little scattered after the fight" 
LIAM: Is Leeta back? 
MATT: "Leeta is back. Leeta is taking care of the Voice of the Tempest, along with the other guardians. But anyway. Come. Come, please!" 
LIAM: We have to speak to her, if she's up for it. 
MATT: "Of course, of course! Yeah. Hi, everyone. I'm Maeve." 
SAM: Hi! 
TALIESIN and LAURA: Hi! 
TRAVIS: Hi, Maeve. 
MARISHA: Hello. 
MATT: "It's a pleasure to meet you all." 
SAM: You can fly? 
MATT: "Well, I can't fly like this, but I can take forms that do and we have devices that allow us to traverse these mountaintops safely and freely." 
SAM: Wow! 
TRAVIS: That's a strong wind you got there! 
MATT: "Learned from the best." 
TRAVIS: A mighty wind. 
SAM: Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Is this normal weather for up here, or is it particularly turbulent? 
MATT: "Oh, I mean, it's always pretty gentle with some bursts here and there. We guide it in stronger spaces when events call for it." 
SAM: Oh, you knocked us down? 
MATT: "I did. I'm sorry." 
SAM: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Okay, I was actually having a hard time understanding that, too. 
SAM: Cool! 
ASHLEY: That was really intense. 
TRAVIS: It's good clarification. 
MATT: "My apologies. I'm very sorry." 
TRAVIS: What does the sky look like here with all of the ley activity that we've been seeing the past couple days? 
MATT: Okay, so glancing up, it's a beautiful blue sky. It's still midday, but you focus a bit and you can see there are leyline, colorful tethers that drift up in the stratosphere that, at first glance, would be easy to miss. But when you focus a bit, you can see where they are. Doesn't look like there's a nexus directly nearby, but you can see some tugging in a northeastern direction and some in a southern direction. 
LIAM: And that's not out of the ordinary for home? 
MATT: Oh, seeing these? Yes. Yes. 
LIAM: Seeing these. Yeah. I mean, this is all based on the solstice bringing the leylines to a very universal visible point. Normally, they're only noticeable through certain types of magical vision and perception. 
LIAM: Okay. 
LAURA: Were you there, Maeve? I'm sorry for not knowing. 
MATT: "Oh, that's all right. Most of us were. It was kind of an 'all to arms' situation, given the short period of time, the information that you had given to the Voice, and the importance of ensuring that..." You can see, she trails off for a moment. "The importance of stopping whatever was planned." 
LIAM: This business has been causing a lot of trouble all over the map. What sort of effect has it had here? 
MATT: "Well, some of our long-standing protective wards have stopped working, some of our means of transportation..." She leans over to one of the gliders and nods. "Need to be re-enchanted. But I think we've fared pretty well, at least from what we've heard from some of the nearby villages that have had a little less of a... I don't know, a strong sense of community." 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Are we still in touch with Whitestone and other places? 
MATT: "Not yet. The Voice has been challenged in her capabilities and most of those of us who have the capability to reach out have been unable to do so." 
LIAM: Okay. 
LAURA: That's across all of Exandria, from what we've seen. 
MATT: "It is. Okay." 
MARISHA: Did you have anyone else get shunted? 
LIAM: Yeah. Have we lost anyone? 
MATT: "Well, everyone who was present seemed to have some sort of an odd reaction when everything went white. Some stayed behind and continued to fight, others woke up scattered about the continent or beyond. We had to send out some of our best wardens to gather those they could, but there's still many that haven't returned. Those that have are in various degrees of recovery." To this point, you start seeing that welcome and that joy in seeing you and that stoic guardian persona begin to waver and crack slightly. Sadness begins to hit her eyes. "We're doing our best. I think everyone is." 
LIAM: How's your mom? 
MATT: "She's good. She's good. As is yours. If you want to pay her a visit at some point while you're here, I think she'd love to see you." 
LIAM: I'd love for you guys to meet my mom. Yeah, we'll be stopping in. I feel like we should get to the Tempest first and trade information. 
MATT: "Of course, of course! Well, come. We'll escort you." She puts the hair back over her shoulder and adjusts her shoulders a bit. (confident) "Come then, please." 
LAURA: (laughs) 
SAM: Oh! 
MATT: "Follow us to the Voice of the Tempest. You have been granted an audience." 
SAM: And follow you, we shall! 
TRAVIS: Oh, very nice, FCG! 
SAM: Looks like we're doing it. 
TRAVIS: Do we need to form a human chain? Like, should we hold hands in case-- 
LAURA: Flying V, I think. 
TALIESIN: Everyone have a buddy. 
MARISHA: That's pretty good. 
LAURA: Oh, right. You mean, in case we fly off the-- 
TRAVIS: Who's the tip of the V? Orym, you're the tip of our V! 
LIAM: (clears throat) 
LAURA: Mm! 
SAM: Show that V tip. 
ASHLEY: Show that V tip. 
LIAM: Tracks. 
MATT: (laughs) 
SAM: As we walk: Orym! Orym! 
LIAM: Yeah? 
SAM: I'm just, not to pry, but I'm just-- 
MARISHA: Sister. 
SAM: Yeah, the family tree. 
MARISHA: We're trying to do the math. 
SAM: So Derrig is not your dad, but you call him dad. Maeve is not your sister, but you called her sister earlier, and I wrote in my notes in my mind there is a Nel and there's also a Leeta who's your mom, but not your mom? 
LIAM: My husband's parents are Derrig-- was Derrig and Nel. 
SAM: And Nel! 
LAURA: Ah! 
MARISHA: Sister-in-law! 
SAM: Okay. Their daughter is Maeve? 
LIAM: Triplets. 
MARISHA: Triplets! 
TALIESIN: Woof! 
SAM: Oh! 
LAURA: She's one of the triplets? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: Oh, and your husband was a triplet? 
LIAM: No, he was their younger brother. 
LAURA: Got it. 
LIAM: So it's Leeta, who is the Tempest's right hand woman. 
SAM: That's one of the trips? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
SAM: Okay. 
LIAM: You just met Maeve, and then there's Baernie still. 
LAURA: Baerniestill? 
LIAM: Baernie. 
LAURA: Baernie. (laughter) 
LIAM: Why I oughta! 
LAURA and MATT: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: Baernie. 
LAURA: Baernie. B. Baernie. 
LIAM: My mom's name is Alma. 
SAM: Is what? Who? 
LAURA and LIAM: Alma. 
SAM: Alma. 
ASHLEY: Alma. 
TALIESIN: Alma. 
LAURA: Okay. That's your mama? 
LIAM: That's my mom. 
SAM: Do you have any blood sisters or brothers or siblings? 
LIAM: Mm-mm. 
SAM: No. 
ASHLEY: Wait, do we know about your dad? No. 
LIAM: You do. 
ASHLEY: I do. I do. I do. 
LIAM: Yeah, he-- 
SAM: She was asking on behalf of us. 
ASHLEY: It's private. It's private. It's not my information to give. 
MATT and TALIESIN: (laugh) 
LIAM: Wasn't in my life. Derrig's my father. 
SAM: Oh. 
ASHLEY: That's right. 
SAM: That's why you didn't want to bring it up. You're so conscientious, Fearne! 
LAURA: Wait, you married your brother? That's a little fucked up, Orym. 
SAM: Wait, what? 
LIAM: It's not really, Imogen. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
LIAM: It was pretty natural. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
LIAM: He was pretty wonderful. We were very in love. They're my family. 
TRAVIS: Nice! Big fam! 
MARISHA: You might have to draw it out. 
TRAVIS: Like a family tree Post-It note? 
LAURA: I got it! 
MARISHA: I'm trying. 
SAM: I got it! 
TALIESIN: It's pretty reasonable. 
TRAVIS: Derrig and Nel, Leeta, Maeve, and-- 
MARISHA: What was your husband's name? 
TRAVIS: -- Baernie. 
SAM: Will. 
MARISHA: Will! That's right. I knew that. 
TRAVIS: Wait, what? 
MARISHA: His husband's name was Will. 
TRAVIS: Oh, yeah. 
MATT: As you walk through the heart of Zephrah Village, you can see all manner of these homesteads that are built into a mountain and along the edges of these platforms that seem to have been grown out of the rock. Either they've been carved from some odd natural growth of the mountain range that seems unnatural or likely druidic powers have shaped this to best benefit the way the people choose to live within Zephrah. But the buildings all have this wonderful round curvature to the stone and you can see a lot of the roofs have a combination of thatched grasses and tightly pulled material, almost like flags that leave gaps through the tops of the buildings and the walls where the wind can blow through and keep a consistent breeze as well as allow temperature to be controlled with certain openings and close. There are all manner of small gardens and flowers throughout, a number of trees that push their way out of various cracks in the stone. There's cultivated sections of farmland that are placed on these sheered steps of stone along parts of the mountain range where you can see, this high up, it looks like a section of a farm was taken and transplanted amongst thousands and thousands of feet up in the air. Birds circle up in the sky above, making you particularly nervous. 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: But you can see individuals going about their business, though also shyly in the immediate presence of some unfamiliar folks. See some children glancing out from near, outside of windows. Some other warriors go and see as you pass, give you a nod. Some of them shouts, like, "Orym! Hi!" 
LIAM: Hey! 
SAM: You don't know that guy's name, do you? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: No idea. 
LIAM: Scuffy. 
SAM: Oh! 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: That's a made up name. 
SAM: Hi, Scuffy! 
MATT: "He knows my name!" (laughter) 
MATT: "That little brass guy knows my name!" 
TALIESIN: He's going to think about that later and he's finally going to realize that that's concerning. 
MATT and LAURA: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: As you're walking by, Maeve saunters up next to you. "Traveling with some weird people." 
LIAM: Tell me about it. And I have been for months. It's wild out there, off the mountain. 
MATT: "Yeah. Leeta mentioned the Voice told her of some of the strangeness that happened in Whitestone." 
LIAM: It was awkward. 
MATT: "Is that the one?" She gives an eye over towards Laudna. 
LIAM: Yeah. She's a good egg. 
MATT: "She looks cooler than I thought." 
LIAM: (laughs) Took me a little bit to acclimate, but good heart. 
MATT: "Mm." 
LIAM: Good heart. 
MATT: "(throat clears)" She turns and looks, and as the walkway curves, you could see the base of this final spire here that sits towards the center of Zephrah. There is this beautiful multi-leveled building that looks like a series of clay huts that are adjoined to each other and there are staircases that wind up to a secondary floor with balconies that sit out and a singular top one with a balcony. The same extended stretch material across the top that give this, almost like a beautiful tarp that's tied down at the edges, like a tent over the structure. You can see, as the wind picks up, parts of it flow and shift with the breeze, giving it this breathing, organic look to it. Every window has its own flower box and vibrant life and color bursting from it. The smooth stones that lead to the front doors, the steps that ascend to it, the doors is this wide arch. It's almost half of an oval where you can see these two trees that grow together and twist into a blossoming cluster of cherry blossom branches. The woman you know as Maeve says, "Just a moment. I need to let them know that you're here, so there aren't any more surprises." She ascends the steps and opens the door and steps out for a second. The door is open quickly, boof, off to the side (impact) and you see as three figures emerge. You see a female half-orc, looks like she'd be in her mid-20s or so, stoic, tall, athletic with a large septum piercing and gray eyes on pale gray skin, white hair. There's a human man in his 50s or so who has a bald head and a beard, darker red brown skin and this warm, perpetual smile, and then a female half-elf that looks very similar to Maeve, but she has shorter blonde hair that ends in a teal coloration, also has her own septum piercing, brown eyes, and intricate leather armor and a half cape that flows back. As they all descend, Maeve shouts behind, "The Master of Defenses is present!" And gives you a look like, "I--" 
LAURA: Is that Leeta? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: As they all approach, the half-elf woman steps forward. "Welcome, Bells Hells! And welcome, Orym." 
LIAM: Hey! It's always a blessing coming home, but I wish it wasn't so heavy this time. 
MATT: "As do I. As do I." 
LIAM: You holding up? 
MATT: "Always. (sighs) Times, strange as they may be, it is welcome to see friendly faces. If I might ask, brother, you are here to see the Tempest?" 
LIAM: Yeah. We saw her before this, right before this. 
LAURA: She landed right in front of us. 
MATT: "She's in a challenged state, so I wish to let you know in advance so as not to-- Well. To help you be prepared." 
LIAM: Honestly, I thought we'd lost her. 
MATT: "So did we." 
LAURA: Y'all have tried Greater Restoration? 
MATT: "We've tried everything at our disposal." 
LAURA: All right. 
MATT: "There are some options." She looks to the left and right of the two figures where they're-- 
LAURA: This is Leeta. Isn't this Leeta? 
MATT: "My name is Leeta. I'm the Master of Defenses. The right hand to the Voice of the Tempest. To my right is Thollo, to my left is Shendunei. These are my guardian associates." 
TRAVIS: Thollo's the male? 
MATT: Thollo's the male. 
LAURA: Oh damn! 
TRAVIS: And Shandulei? 
MATT: Shendunei. 
TRAVIS: Shendunei. 
MARISHA: ♪ Shendu Shendunei. ♪ 
LIAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Going to butcher that. 
MARISHA: ♪ Shendunei ♪ 
TRAVIS: Going to butcher that. 
MATT: "Come with us, please." As they turn around, the two other figures step off to the side and maintain guard at the bottom of the steps, and they're all keeping a very, very intense eye at the horizon behind you. 
SAM: Mm. 
MARISHA: The horizon? 
MATT: Just the space behind you. 
SAM: They hate the sun. 
MATT: Yes. 
LAURA: There must be-- 
SAM: And sunsets. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LAURA: -- must be scary with all the wards being down around here, huh? 
LIAM: I'm used to this place being-- feeling safe. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: I guess a lot of people around the world are feeling that now, though. Not used to people being so on edge here. 
SAM: Yeah, is it usually more easy breezy here? 
LIAM: Little bit. I'm sure that has something to do with it. Mostly her, though. 
MATT: Okay. As you follow Maeve into the darker interior of this beautiful, natural abode, if you can call it that. It's a temple or a natural office complex, almost. As you step up the stairs in the interior, the smell of herbs and incense meet you immediately. There are a number of beautiful glass lanterns, like oblong eggs of a glassy, opaque material that glow and thrum with an interior energy. A handful of them lay dark across the ceiling, keeping the theme of the scattered unraveling of enchantments throughout the land. You can see there are bookcases grown from the nearby roots. You feel like you're in the inside of a tree that's been shaped or moved and everything has this swooping organic feel to it. The chairs and tables themselves all seem to have sprung up from the wood itself and the ground and carry the striations to natural shapes that cup and hold you where you sit. Everything here has this beautiful, purposeful, natural feel and as you step in, a handful of other associates of the Voice of the Tempest, who are in the process of their own research, reading, you're uncertain, all turn, look and watch as you enter and start whispering amongst each other as Leeta guides you up to a second and then eventually to the third upper floor of this building. There, there is a partially opened door, itself coming to a pointed arch, apex, and as she pushes it open, you see the inside of a warmly lit-- It's a bedroom. It's grandiose. There are number of pieces of beautiful, if simple, furniture. You can see there are some tapestries and paintings on the walls. Some that depict interpretive aspects of recent history. You see one that has what looks almost like a red dragon cresting towards the sky as a burning city beneath it sits and you see a single bird flying up to pursue it. You see another that shows a massive-- Looks like an earth elemental, but the scale of it is impossible, as it looms over a crushed metropolis. You can see these little moments kept throughout. As well as beautiful depictions of areas around, you assume, Exandria or dreamscapes. Like an emerald daydream that sits. Paintings that have done by hand. It begins to resemble more of an art studio as much as it does a bedroom. Through the light that comes through, you can see there is a large four-post bed of grown, twisting vines and root. There, resting, propped up, the familiar red, falling, curled hair and antlers adorning the front of a laying Keyleth. Leeta steps forward to the edge and grasps the hand of Keyleth and goes, "Tempest. Orym has come with his compatriots and they wish to speak with you." And Keyleth sits up, and "(grunts) Please, come. There is much to discuss." 
LIAM: I take a few quick steps forward and take a knee and bow. 
LAURA: Yeah, I'll do that. 
TALIESIN: I'll do that, too. 
SAM: Try to do that and sort of fall down because I don't have knees. 
TALIESIN: I'll just hold-- 
MARISHA: I elbow Chetney. 
TALIESIN: I'll just hold you at the proper angle. 
SAM: Thank you. 
TRAVIS: I mean, I just curtsy. I'm pretty low already. 
SAM: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: All right. 
MATT: You step forward and get a better look at her and you can see she-- The wounds that she sustained in that battle remain. And while there is no blood visible, the flesh looks freshly carved. You can see all manner of gashes across her neck and shoulders and her face. It's this bright red flesh exposed in each of these open wounds. It's horrifying. You watch as she leans forward. As each one shifts, she winces. 
LAURA: Ah! 
LIAM: I shoot a look to Leeta in the back. 
MATT: She gives a nod and grabs and squeezes your shoulder a bit. Keyleth goes, "My staff, please." Leeta goes and grasps and pulls this long, beautifully carved, rune-covered staff. Hands it to her and she grabs it. 
LAURA: Please don't move on our account, please. 
SAM: Yeah, you just lie there. It's better that way. 
MATT: "I'll stand shortly when the room stops spinning." She smiles a little bit. "My apologies for what you see before you. I do not look at my best at the moment. (exhales)" 
LIAM: I'm just grateful you're here. I'm sure everyone here at home is. 
MATT: "Yes, I'm grateful you are here as well." 
LIAM: Tempest, what happened? 
MATT: "The assassin uses the same toxin that once found its way to our village. It doesn't have a historical precursor we can pinpoint. I barely sustained an injury last time, but we all lost much in the shadow of that day. We were able to recover. But only after finding a challenged remedy. And unfortunately, not in time for those we'd already lost. I have sent a group to try and retrieve what is known as the Blue Perennem Flower." 
LAURA: (laughs) 
SAM: It gets a lot of sun. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
SAM: This thrives with sunlight? 
TRAVIS: You searched the in between us. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LIAM: The sun has to be in the right part of the sky. It's a brief moment. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
SAM: The flower, is it? 
MATT: Urge to kill a beloved NPC right now. (laughter) 
SAM: As if she could. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I'd like to point out I've said nothing. 
MATT: I know. 
LAURA: What's a Blue Perennem Flower? Where does it grow? 
SAM: Nooks and crannies? (laughter) 
SAM: Shit. 
TRAVIS: No, no, no, no, don't do it, don't do it, please! 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Only hurt him. 
SAM: Cavern? (laughter) 
MATT: The few that do grow are known to bloom in cursed landscapes. 
SAM: Oh yeah. (laughter) 
LIAM: Zip it up, Riegel. 
SAM: Sorry, sorry. 
MARISHA: I hate you so much right now. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
MATT: (sighs) (laughs) 
ASHLEY: (laughs) Oh no. 
MATT: "They were able only to recover enough to create enough ointment to recover from those wounds from that day. But I do not have the strength to go myself. So we sent the team from the Battle of the Red Center that seemed strong enough. But we've not heard word, and they've not returned in the past three days since leaving." 
LIAM: Sorry, this is overseas or here at home? 
MATT: "It's a ways north of here in the Grey Valley. Just above the Umbra Hills in the Cliffkeep." 
LAURA: What does the flower look like? 
MATT: "It's a blue flower that has a pattern of six leaves. The dark leaf patterns generally resemble a face." 
ASHLEY: (laughs) Sorry, sorry. I'm sorry, I just got the giggles and they're not going away. 
MATT and MARISHA: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: I'm so sorry. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "Unfortunately, it grows in only a handful of places and the Grey Valley is likely the safest of them that is known. Specifically, places that are marked with strife in the land, and places that draw the attention of less than friendly things." She bites her lower lip a little bit and adjusts. Wincing in pain, she leans back against the bed. "The group that was sent was led by Baernie." 
SAM: Oh. Shit. 
LIAM: How long have they been gone? 
LAURA: Three days? 
MATT: "Three days." 
MARISHA: How long did you anticipate the trip taking? 
MATT: "Well, hopefully no more than a day. To stay the night there is a bad-- Bad sign for anyone." You can see her teeth clench and that-- That gentle energy for a minute goes into a cold anger before it subsides. "I should be the one making that trip." 
LAURA: You've done enough. 
MATT: "I haven't. I never have." 
SAM: Healer here, hi. Does this ointment, does it stabilize the wounds or does it actually cure these wounds or this toxin? 
MATT: "It seems to slowly rejuvenate the areas corrupted by the toxin. Mind you, it couldn't bring those who had passed back from beyond. In the minor wounds from those who survived, it seemed to be effective. I have no confirmation that it'll be enough for me to fully recover, but--" 
SAM: Are you the only person who needs it now or are there others still? 
MATT: "There are others. Three others. But if I can get-- If I can get back to where I was, I can handle the rest." 
LIAM: How many did we lose? 
MATT: "We lost a little over two dozen. We would've possibly lost more had we not been scattered. Now, mind you, some of those are still missing and haven't been recovered, so there's still a chance for a lot of them." 
LAURA: It's very hard to travel. If they got sent far-- 
LIAM: Keyleth, we were thrown to two places on the globe instantly, in the last seconds of whatever it is that happened. What's the last thing that you saw? 
MATT: "Last thing that I saw before the light took us was someone important to me. Someone I lost long ago. And I will do everything in my power to destroy them who did this." 
LIAM: Allow me to be your blade, Tempest. 
MATT: "Otohan. Ludinus. Liliana, all of them. I will tear down everything they represent. And I will see that they leave no more pain in their wake." 
SAM: Yeah, you're totally right. I mean, Liliana, maybe not, but the other ones for sure. 
LAURA: I don't know anymore. She didn't help. Although, that white light-- I don't think we've talked about it. That light that sent us all away. 
SAM: Is that different from the beam to the moon? 
LAURA: Well, I don't know. The only other time I remember anything like that was-- 
LIAM: Our first clash, right? 
TALIESIN: Yep. 
LAURA: Right. When everything exploded and-- Y'all were fine through it all, right? Y'all were safe? And everything else was destroyed? I had no control over that, but what if somebody there did that? What if somebody at the site caused it? 
MARISHA: Liliana. 
LAURA: And sent us all away. What if it would've been so much worse? Everybody could have died there. 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: I don't know. 
SAM: You couldn't control it, but what if someone could? 
LAURA: Right. 
SAM: It was when you were overcome by anger, fear? Both? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Are you suggesting you think Liliana did it last? 
LAURA: I don't know. Wishful thinking maybe. 
LIAM: Tempest-- 
SAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: More than maybe. 
LIAM: We got ourselves fairly entangled in their business there. Learned a lot, maybe not enough. 
MARISHA: I saw Keyleth eyeing Imogen. Do I get the sense that she knows the connection between Imogen and Liliana? 
MATT: Make an insight check. 
LAURA: Did we ever reveal that to her? I can't remember if-- 
SAM: Insight into your old character! 
MARISHA: Yeah, what's she thinking? Use my Imogen die. It's not great. 
TALIESIN: Inscrutable. 
MARISHA: Eight. 
MATT: Eight? 
SAM: Whispers. 
MATT: Hard to tell. She's definitely partially present. Part of her mind seems definitely emotional and focused elsewhere. 
LAURA: In your head: Do you think you should tell her what y'all saw? 
LIAM: I think back: I was about to. Tempest, we're very close to this. My friend is kin with Temult. 
LAURA: That's not what I was thinking you should tell her. (laughter) 
LIAM: I don't care. 
LAURA: In your head. 
MATT: "I had a suspicion." 
LAURA: I never knew her. 
MATT: "But you are here to help?" 
LAURA: Of course. 
LIAM: I vouch for her. 
LAURA: In your head you hear: I want to fix this. 
MATT: "If there's any sign of betrayal-- This is bigger than us." You see her clutch the bedding for a bit and sit up to get a little more officious in her presentation. "(grunts) We need to rally. Everything is tangled by design. They've sown distraction for months leading up to this. In major cities, small ones, everyone is desperate with fear and confusion. This Ruby Vanguard that you had mentioned that we've connected with some of these false front cults, they're now beginning to emerge publicly, rallying common folk and using their fear and unrest to bolster their ranks, without the focus of those working to reverse their actions. I want to visit the Birthheart in Vasselheim, speak with their great hierophants. I just lack the strength to-- I lack the strength to use my connection to the elements for right now. I dislike putting more weight on your shoulders, Orym, but could you look into this lost group of volunteers? Could you try and help me recover?" 
LIAM: I've been struggling with the blood in my eye for a few weeks now. I've never been so fucking angry. But it doesn't matter because it's still what needs to be done. Let my friends prove themselves to you in this. Let me prove myself to you in any way that you need. You've always told me that we're stronger if we stand together. 
MATT: "Always. Anger can be challenging, can cloud your focus, your wisdom, lead to wanton impulse, and sometimes put those you care about in danger. But sometimes-- Sometimes it's exactly what you need. So don't lose that anger, just learn when to use it." 
LIAM: Working on it. 
MATT: "I've been angry for 30 years. Help me find a place to use it." 
LIAM: Orym's going to just reach his hand out. 
MATT: She reaches off the side of the bed and you see as she struggles to reach forward a bit. Little vines grow from the nearby bed and help support her arm as she reaches out and takes your hand and in your grasp, you've held her hand before, she's a totem of strength. In this moment, her hand is like paper. 
LIAM: I promise you I'll give you every last breath to make this right. 
MATT: "And are you all with him?" 
TALIESIN: Oh yes. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: Of course. 
MATT: "Then bring back our people. Gather as much as you can so we might recover and then together we will rain down the fury of every power Exandria has upon these absolute shitheads." 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Excuse me. 
MARISHA: Twice a year. 
MATT: "(coughs)" She leans back in the bed for a second. Her head piece tilts off for a moment. Can see that Leeta approaches and sets her hand to her side. "Whatever you need for preparations, we'll go ahead and acquire for you. I believe that Maeve should be able to send you where you need to go." 
SAM: Oh, like magically? 
LAURA: How will we get back? 
MATT: "That is a good question. I would say you would reach out to Maeve and return to the same tree, but reaching out seems to be challenge these days, and that's what leaves us so anxious about the volunteers that went out." 
LAURA: Yeah 
SAM: Maybe we could set a time every day. 
LAURA: Check in? 
SAM: Well, no. 
LAURA: I have the staff. 
SAM: At noon open the tree. 
LIAM: Open the tree from this end. 
LAURA: Right. 
SAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: Oh, that's a good idea. Just in case the staff isn't working. 
SAM: Oh yeah, you do have the staff. 
LAURA: I have the staff, I just can't do it today. I wouldn't be able to come back. 
SAM: Sure, sure, sure. 
LAURA: We'd have to sleep there. 
TRAVIS: Tempest, just a question. Sorry, Chetney Pock O'Pea here. 
MATT: Tempest is laying back in the bed. "Yeah, yes." 
LIAM: C-POP Industries. 
TRAVIS: C-POP Industries, all your wood working needs, though most of your shit is stone, which is durable, I get it. 
LAURA: It's wood, it's a lot of wood here. 
TRAVIS: Yeah... (whining) 
MARISHA and MATT: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: One question, the poison you said that was used, would a sample of that poison be helpful or is this blue flower doing the trick? 
MATT: "It's worked before. Right now, it's all we have. Do you have access to this toxin?" 
LAURA: Did we? 
SAM: Do you? 
LAURA: I think we did. 
SAM: What? 
MARISHA: From those crates that we? 
LAURA: Was that the poison, did we pick up the poison? 
SAM: Crates? 
TRAVIS: I don't think so, I just meant if we were lucky enough to come across these shitheads as you so gloriously said, your highness. Maybe we can try and bring some back. We might reverse engineer an antidote or something? 
MATT: "If you could bring something like that, I'm sure it could help." 
TRAVIS: I didn't know if you had any and already tried and failed or anything like that. 
MATT: "We took what we can based on my injuries. Unfortunately, the toxin seems to seep into the system and it's hard to extract." 
TRAVIS: I'm sorry, that sounds awful. We'll do what we can, keep an eye out. 
MATT: "Thank you, Chetney Pock O'Pea of, what was it?" 
TRAVIS: C-POP Industries. 
MATT: "C-POP Industries." 
TRAVIS: And if we are successful, might I throw you, I could pitch a couple additions that would spruce up the place. Give it a more, I don't know if-- 
MATT: Leeta steps forward and goes "(clears throat)." 
TRAVIS: Yes, of course. Thank you for your time, rest well. 
SAM: Do you have a divinity or a divine being that you pray to? No? Oh, okay, never mind. 
MATT: "There are people who take faith in this world and that's important to them. The gods do as they will, and while our people have much alignment with the Wildmother, the Stormlord, those that look over aspects of the natural world that we are part of. We worship the natural world. They are just the stewards, so no." 
LIAM: When it comes to the gods here, we just try to be good neighbors and hope that they will, too. 
SAM: Oh yeah. 
MATT: "Nature was here before they were." 
SAM: True, but if they go away, will that affect nature poorly? 
MATT: "I hope we never find out." 
SAM: I hope so, too. I'll say a prayer for you. 
MATT: "Thank you. (grunts)" 
SAM: Should we let her sleep? 
LIAM: I think so. 
SAM: I cast Sleep! (laughter) 
LIAM: Way too many hit points. (laughter) 
MATT: Not at the moment. 
LIAM and LAURA: Oh. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: (snores) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Benadryl Sleep. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Damn! 
TALIESIN: You said that there was a big stone elemental-- 
MATT: In one of the tapestries. 
TALIESIN: In one of the tapestries? Okay. 
MATT: One that based on the scope of the landscape around, it looks like it's the size of a mountain almost. 
LAURA: (knowing noises) 
TALIESIN: Is there any text on the tapestry woven in or anything about what it's displaying? 
MATT: The only text you see across the bottom, written in a beautiful calligraphy Common. It reads, "The Ascension and the Sealing." 
SAM: Ascension and the sealing? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, C-E-I-L-I-N-G. 
SAM: Mm. Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Not that one. 
SAM: Cool. 
TALIESIN: I wonder what your name is. All right. 
LAURA: It's funny, this place, it's like the antithesis of Nana Morri's, right? It's all the same stuff, but in a completely different way. 
ASHLEY: Just like it, yeah. A little more boring. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah. If you cleared everything out at Nana Morri. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah, and just with a minimalist-- 
TALIESIN: Almost got a library vibe. I mean, you know. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, library vibe. 
TALIESIN: Well, supposed to, yeah. 
LIAM: I think we should let the Tempest-- 
SAM: Oh, we're still here? Oh, okay. 
LAURA: Oh, I'm sorry, I thought we left. (laughter) 
LAURA: I thought we followed Leeta out. 
SAM: Bye. 
TRAVIS: Thanks, Temp- est. 
SAM: Do we leave a tip or something or should we just go? 
MATT: Leeta leads you and escorts you outside of the building back into the brighter exterior of the open air of Zephrah. "So you are to do this? I... I wished to have done this myself, but in her state, the Voice of the Tempest needs her esteemed guardians at her side." 
LIAM: It's hard seeing her like that. 
MATT: "It is. We all look to her for strength. Most have not seen her since you've returned." 
LIAM: Ah. Right. 
ASHLEY: I'm so sorry. Were you there when this happened? 
MATT: "I was." 
LIAM: How far from the spot were you guys? 
MATT: "We were about halfway up the excavation walls. We were descending to join what I know to be where you all were." 
TRAVIS: We were at the bottom making a mess, fucking them up, just needed a little bit more time. 
MARISHA: We dropped the airship. 
MATT: "That was you?" 
MARISHA: On the-- Yes. 
TRAVIS: Sure was. 
MATT: "That was messy and incredible!" 
SAM: Did it do anything? 
MATT: "It wiped out like 30 of their kind!" 
SAM: Hey! That's good! 
LAURA: Oh! That's great! 
MATT: "I think it damaged part of the machine." 
LAURA: That's wonderful! 
TALIESIN: It was a good plan. 
LAURA: Yeah, we were thinking it didn't do-- 
ASHLEY: Probably what did it. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: It was a good plan. 
LIAM: Were any of us left and not thrown willy-nilly after it all went down? 
MATT: "A number remained. I was one. It was a bit of a tenuous struggle for survival. Those that remained between us and them in the wake of the disappearance of all the major pieces, well, it was violent." 
TRAVIS: Did you fight any of the red creatures? 
MATT: "Do you know what those are?" 
LAURA: They're Reilorans. Yeah. 
MATT: "A few of those nightmarish things came through. They seem to be allied with the Vanguard." 
LAURA: Yeah. That would track. 
SAM: Did you see entities, people going up and down, back and forth, or was it just a one-way delivery? 
LIAM: Did you have to fall back? 
MATT: "We immediately fell back. We gathered who we could and returned with the wounded Tempest. She was in dire straits." 
LAURA: Did you see a white light? 
MATT: "Yeah. Bright one that consumed the space. Yes." 
LAURA: All right. 
SAM: After it was gone, Ludinus was gone, or did you have eyes on Ludinus or the key figures there? 
MATT: "Ludinus was gone. You were all gone." 
LIAM: What about Temult? 
MATT: I believe she was gone as well. 
SAM: It was like an instant gone, not like (whooshes) like getting sucked up into the sky or anything, right? 
MATT: "I didn't see in the moment." 
TALIESIN: Huh! 
TRAVIS: Sorry, I know it's 20 questions and I don't mean to harp on the red people, but did you fight them? How did you wound them? Were they resistant to anything? What was it like? Only because I feel like-- 
LIAM: We've been wondering for a week what happened after we were taken away. 
TRAVIS: Do they bleed? 
MATT: "They bleed." 
SAM: We can kill it. 
TRAVIS: Fuck yeah, Captain Obvious! 
MATT: "Though, they don't speak with words. There were some that were hulking, there were some that were quick, there were some that were, it seemed like between realms." 
LAURA: Mm. That's... Yeah. 
MATT: "We didn't know enough to confidently continue and so we took who we could and fled. At this point, we had seen it as a failed incursion and the other arrivals weren't faring much better. So had you all still been there, we would've brought you back with us, too. We would not have abandoned you." 
LAURA: Of course. 
TALIESIN: Good to know. 
TRAVIS: Yeah! Very generous! 
ASHLEY: May I insight check Leeta? 
MATT: Yes, you may! 
ASHLEY: Just if there's any sort of something that feels like it's being hidden? 
MATT: Yeah, yeah. Go for it. 
LIAM: Roll high. 
TRAVIS: Come on! Pow! (explosion) 
ASHLEY: Aah! Okay. Let's see here. 27. 
MATT: 27! 
SAM: Holy moley! 
LAURA: Whoa! 
SAM: Guys! I don't know if I'm supposed to read this. 
TRAVIS: Why are you going to hold it far away, like you can't read. 
SAM: No, this is a combat thing. I can't read this until we're in combat. 
TRAVIS: Well, you don't know if we're going to fight. You don't know if we're going to fight. 
LAURA: Yeah, we might fight. 
TALIESIN: If this were a fight-- 
TRAVIS: You're losing. 
SAM: Then teeth, tentacles, and terror! Pre-order Mighty Obann the Punished today! Holy shit! 
LAURA: Woo! 
SAM: Check out the full collection of Critical Role miniatures at WizKids.io/CRMinis and at your LGS, that's local game store. WizKids. 
TRAVIS: Let's punch Marisha in the throat when she comes back. 
MATT: Ah! Checks out. 
MATT: Is she lying? Is she a fucking liar? 
ASHLEY: No, I don't think so. 
SAM: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Is there anyone in your camp that you feel kind of weird about that you don't really trust? 
SAM: A mole? 
ASHLEY: A mole of sorts? 
TRAVIS: Whoa, whoa! Fearne! 
ASHLEY: I'm just saying! 
TRAVIS: We just got here! 
ASHLEY: I'm just saying. I know, but it's your family. We're family. 
SAM: Some of us can also listen to thoughts. We could weed out a potential turncoat in your midst. 
LAURA: That's true. 
MATT: She thinks to herself a minute and shakes her head. "Honestly, I wouldn't even want to contemplate that possibility. We have to rely on trust, especially in this time. The last thing we need is paranoia sweeping through our camp." 
ASHLEY: Sure. 
LIAM: Desperate times. 
LAURA: What's the Grey Valley like? 
MATT: "I've never been, but from what we've been told, it's... Let me find someone who can answer this better than I." She steps back into the interior of the building and comes out with the man who was introduced as Thollo earlier. He descends the stairs and is gentle armored, like a hide breast plate, and his robes that flow a bit behind. He goes, "Well, I've been told that you've inquired about the Grey Valley. That's correct?" 
LAURA: That's right. 
MATT: "The Grey Valley was a site forever marred during the Scattered War of Gwessar a number of centuries back here before it was called Tal'Dorei. This was the site of the historical King Trist Drassig's bargain with the Demon Prince of Indulgence and left the entire valley forest cursed, left pale and stone-like in the wake of the destructive conflict that ended the battle of the Umbra Hills. To this day, while that battle saw most of that power left alleviated, much of the dark scars of it still linger. There are remnants of demonic essence that cling to that landscape. There are dark spirits and impish scavengers that seek to rob warmth and light. There's particularly intense evenings under the red moon." They all glance over in the direction of, you can see the burning bit of Ruidus looming on the southern horizon. "Where often more powerful denizens of the Abyss and beyond wander the landscape." 
SAM: Oh god! 
LAURA: So it's probably way worse right now. 
LIAM: This is the one place where the flower grows? 
MATT: "It's the safest." 
LIAM: That's a rough bit of business. 
TALIESIN: (whistles) 
SAM: It was like this before all the leyline crap happened? 
MATT: "It's been this way for a few centuries. Yeah." 
SAM: Oh wow! 
LAURA: Cool, cool, cool, cool, cool. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, the general consensus was you just don't go there. 
SAM: Well, we're going. 
LAURA: So you know about it? 
TALIESIN: We are going. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. North of the Dividing Plains. It's up there. 
LAURA: Crap! 
SAM: You've been everywhere! 
TRAVIS: Ain't I? 
SAM: I don't know. Ain't you? Have you? 
TRAVIS: Yeah! 
SAM: Have you been everywhere? 
TRAVIS: Pretty much. 
SAM: Issylra? 
TRAVIS: No. 
MARISHA: (gasps) We were just there! 
TRAVIS: Okay, rub it in! 
MARISHA: We got one! 
TRAVIS: What the fuck? 
LIAM: Nice! 
TRAVIS: Okay, okay. There's still time! It's not like I've got limited days left or anything. (fake laughs) 
LAURA: Have you rolled yet today? 
TRAVIS: What do you mean? (laughter) 
MARISHA: If this battle was a few centuries ago were you alive for it? 
SAM: Were you there? 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
MARISHA: Were you there? 
SAM: Insight check! 
TRAVIS: Yep! 300 years ago? (squeaks) Yeah, I was probably just leaving. 
LAURA: You were just a baby! 
ASHLEY: Just a wee baby. 
LAURA: Just a wee little 100 year old baby. 
TRAVIS: I started in Tal'Dorei! This is my shit! 
MARISHA: That's right! 
SAM: So will we need any gear? Like, is it super cold? We need cold stuff? Is it super hot? We need hot stuff? 
LIAM: I need some gear. 
TRAVIS: Urine? 
SAM: That's what I heard as well. 
LAURA: I need some gear. 
LIAM: Need some gear. 
TRAVIS: Wow, it came across as urine over here! There was a fluctuation in this space. It's like, "I need some urine." (laughter) 
LIAM: You hear what you want to hear, Travis. 
TRAVIS: They're going to play it back! Watch! They're going to do it! And it'll just be subtitled, "Urine." (laughter) 
MATT: "We'll provide everything we can outside of leaving Zephrah in a less defensible position. But of course, Orym, whatever you--" 
LIAM: I just need some armor. Mine's kind of wearing thin. 
MATT: "Oh, we can sure find something for you that can be helpful in this." 
TALIESIN: Thollo, right? Is that the name? 
MATT: You looking for Thollo? 
TALIESIN: Oh yeah. Sorry! I was like-- 
MATT: "Oh yes! Of course! That's my name." 
TALIESIN: You seem to know a lot of the history of this place. Is that your thing? 
MATT: "It's one of my things. It's partially a hobby and why I'm one of the advisors to the Voice of the Tempest is I spend a lot of my free time absorbing all sorts of strange trivia." 
SAM: Like a lorekeeper? 
MATT: "More or less. Also trivia master. Get real nasty when we start having trivia nights." 
SAM: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: All right, I've got a trivia question for you. I pull out the helmet and place it in front of him. 
MARISHA: Ooh! 
SAM: What helmet is this? What helmet is this? 
MARISHA: The one that he yanked from the museum that is-- 
LIAM: Hishari, probably. 
MARISHA: -- probably connected to his backstory. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: What do you know about the Hishari? 
MATT: "The Hishari! That's a name I haven't heard in better part of 20 years or so." 
SAM: Grishari? 
LIAM: Hishari. 
SAM: Hishari. 
MATT: "They're a bunch of weird grifting folk, little ways back, like a cult of personality, you would say, based around a real spicy individual. Started gathering folk across Issylra talking about some great event to reclaim the power of the elemental Titans. Went ahead and borrowed the name of the Ashari and utilized it to spread all sorts of strange promises and took over and claimed the town as their own, like cults tend to do when they're left alone for too long. Some folks flocked to them, looking for answers, others looking for a place to belong. Then eventually, well, they dallied with powers they were never meant to, blew up the town. Those that survived eventually scattered and stopped talking about it. One of history's small mistakes." 
LAURA: How long ago was that? 
MATT: "It was about 20 or so years ago." 
TALIESIN: A little more, actually. But yeah. Anything you might have about those names and that history and the people who might have been there where I could find some answers about that, I would be very grateful for that upon our return. 
MATT: "Okay. I can do some research on that. Yeah! I don't know where you found that helmet. That's a good keepsake!" 
TALIESIN: Yeah. Yeah, it is a interesting reminder. I put it back in my satchel. All right. 
LIAM: Leeta, I'd really like to stop in and see Nel, but maybe I ought to find her daughter first. 
MATT: "I like the idea of you returning with good news." 
LIAM: Would like to refresh all this and then I'd like to stop in and see Mom before we go. 
MATT: "Okay." 
LIAM: Can we have an hour or two? 
MATT: "Of course." 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: "I'll go prepare Maeve, let her know what's to come." 
LIAM: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. I need to find a tailor, too. I'll follow you for some of that. I'm feeling a little, I feel like I want to dress for the job. 
LIAM: Oh yeah? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Wait, did they say if it was... Is it cold? Is it warm? Or just demonic? 
TRAVIS: It's nippy. 
LIAM: Oh, there! Yeah, it gets nippy at night here. I don't know about the Grey. 
MARISHA: I'm like a lizard. 
MATT: "Oh, it gets a little chilly. It's mostly clouded up in those spaces. You're far enough south of the Neverfields that you're not going to get too much snow, though it does happen on occasion. I'd say maybe just bring a cloak, I think will work fine." 
LAURA: All right. 
MATT: "I think. Yeah." 
MARISHA: All right. 
SAM: I'll get chains. 
MARISHA: You'll get tire chains. 
TALIESIN: I might actually have enough-- 
SAM: Yeah? 
TALIESIN: -- in the hole to make your tires! 
SAM: Great! 
TALIESIN: If you want to try. 
TRAVIS: Oh my god! 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Fucking freezing. 
SAM: Orym, you and Ashton are going to go off and get some clothes and gear? What do you want us to do? Just hang around, or-- 
LIAM: I'd love for you to meet my mom. 
SAM: Oh, okay! 
LAURA: Sure! 
SAM: I don't want to intrude. 
LIAM: You guys are like family now. 
SAM: Okay. 
LIAM: Come meet my mom. 
TALIESIN: I'll collect another mom. 
LIAM: One of my two moms. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: All right. 
SAM: Should we bring a gift or something? 
LIAM: She could see her son for the first time in a few months. She'd probably be pretty happy about that. 
ASHLEY: That would be a good gift. 
SAM: Let's go. 
MATT: All righty. So where you heading to first? 
LIAM: I think I'll see Mom first. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: I'll lead the gang. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: What if it takes a while to get your gear done? 
MARISHA: Whittling something quick? 
LIAM: I mean, I'm looking for stuff they have on hand. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TALIESIN: I'm just dropping my shit off. I don't need it right now. 
TRAVIS: Wood chips fucking flying. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: Just-- (rapid chiseling) 
TRAVIS: (blows) 
MATT: Perfect! 
TRAVIS: (blows) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: Walking through the town, eventually you lead them to what was your home growing up. Describe to them what your home looks like. 
LIAM: Oh, it's a little cottage core place built into the side of the cliff. There are flower boxes everywhere and a little sign outside with a little painting of a swaddled baby. 
SAM: Mm! 
LAURA: (soft gasp) Oh! She's a midwife. 
LIAM: It's built for our size, so it is too small for most of you. Fearne will really have to get down low. 
SAM: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: I can do it. I can do it. 
LIAM: It's pretty unassuming, humble. I'll knock on the door. (knocks) 
MATT: A moment passes before you hear the (squeaking hinges) the door opens and you see a female halfling the equivalent of about 60 or so years old, 65 maybe, slight hunch to her shoulders, but strong legs, no shoes, just the feet poking through the bottom of a flowing white and green dress. You see curly brown, red hair that goes past her shoulders and streaks of white through it and these gentle pale blue eyes as she looks with a big, bright smile. Her brow furrowed a bit. "Orym! Orym! (laughs) Come here, my boy!" Grabs him immediately and picks him up as the shield (metal clanging) onto the ground next to you. "(laughs)" 
LIAM: Good to see you, too! 
MATT: "Oh! Oh, my boy! It's so good to see you!" 
LIAM: How's the family business? 
MATT: "Oh! It's-- Well, it's been a little strange around here as of late, but it's going fine. How goes the travel? How goes the journey? How goes everything? You've been gone for quite some time! Are these your friends?" 
LIAM: These are my friends. This is the best part about the trip. 
MATT: "Hello, everyone! I'm Alma! It's so nice to meet you!" 
ALL: Hi, Alma! 
MATT: "Oh!" 
LIAM: Here we go. Mom, this is Ashton. 
TALIESIN: Hi. 
MATT: "Hello, Ashton." 
LIAM: This is my new friend Imogen. 
MATT: "Imogen! I'm glad you're his friend." (laughter) 
LIAM: You'll remember Fearne. Hard to forget her. 
MATT: "Indeed!" 
ASHLEY: Hi! Nice to see you again. 
MATT: "Very, very, very nice to see you, too!" 
LIAM: This is my friend, Fresh Cut Grass. He is an automaton. 
MATT: "Yes, you are!" 
SAM: Smiley day to you! This is Orym! Orym's your kid! 
MATT: "He is!" 
SAM: Yeah. I mean, that's just so exciting for me to meet you! 
MATT: "Well, it's exciting for me to meet you! I've not met someone quite like you either. You're very unique!" 
SAM: Okay, thank you! 
LIAM: I press my face to the side of hers and you guys see the very, very strong resemblance. 
SAM: Both of you do this! Do a big smile! Oh, it's the same! (laughter) 
TALIESIN: That's a lot! 
LAURA: That's cute! 
LIAM: We're a unique group. This is my friend Laudna. 
MATT: "Laudna." 
MARISHA: Hello. 
MATT: "Oh, nice to meet you! Can I get you anything to eat?" 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Oh goodness! I'm all right. Do you have a biscuit? Biscuits? 
MATT: "Oh, I have quite a few biscuits!" 
MARISHA: Any pastries, really. We're all fans of pastries. 
MATT: "I'll see what I can muster." 
LIAM: And that's Chet. That's Chetney. 
MATT: "Oh, hello there!" 
TRAVIS: Ah! Chetney Pock O'Pea! Pleased to make your (blows) acquaintance! 
MATT: "A bit distracted, that one, but quite a skilled set of hands!" 
MARISHA: It'll be... He's going to just-- 
TRAVIS: Ah! 
LIAM: He's an artist. It's best not to get in the way of his craft. 
MARISHA: In your head, you hear: You better be careful. Chet's going to try to fuck your mom. 
SAM: Younger woman. 
ASHLEY: Mm-hmm. 
LIAM: Orym doesn't answer. (laughter) (laughter) 
MATT: "Please, please, come in! It might not-- Well, those who would like to come in, you may. You are welcome to stay outside." 
SAM: Fearne, you want to come in? 
LIAM: Let's squish in! Come on! 
ASHLEY: Yes, of course. Of course, I can squish. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: You all one-by-one begin to squeeze down into this chamber. For most of you, it's definitely a hunched forward, nearly kneeling situation. For you, you're practically crawling in some of these chambers. But it's a humble homestead. 
ASHLEY: Hit a chandelier. 
MATT: It's warm in the interior. There are hanging planterns that's set up against the different corners. 
MARISHA: Plantern? 
SAM: Yeah, it's like a lantern that's made of a plant. 
MARISHA: But it's a plant? 
SAM: That's kind of cool! 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Plantern. 
MATT: Plantern. You can see there on a clay fireplace hearth, has all these little shelves across it at different heights that have little bits of pottery and clay shaped art pieces. You see that she's been busy in recent times. 
LIAM: Mom's one of the few midwives here in town. So business is always booming. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "But please, you are welcome to sit down. I'll go and see what I have as far as pastries go. If, perhaps I just have biscuits, but can make them sweet. Is honey all right?" 
LAURA: (gasps) Oh my gosh! That sounds amazing! 
TALIESIN: Honey sounds amazing. 
ASHLEY: Yes, yes, yes, yes! 
MATT: "I will be right back." 
LAURA: Oh gosh, that sounds amazing! 
ASHLEY: Oh, it sounds so good! 
LAURA: (murmurs) I want one right now. 
MARISHA: Honey biscuit. 
LIAM: Oh man! You don't have any muffins right now, do you? 
MATT: "Give me a moment." 
LAURA: You're going to make your mom bake some muffins. 
LIAM: I didn't want her to bake them, I said if she had them. They're the best! 
MATT: So she heads off into one of the nearby kitchens and is humming to herself. "(cheerful humming)" 
TALIESIN: I think we can all agree-- 
SAM: I'm just looking at Fearne, make sure she's not stealing anything. 
ASHLEY: I would never steal from Alma! 
MARISHA: (laughs) Somebody's parent. 
LAURA: Alma? Really? 
SAM: No moms? That's your rule. 
ASHLEY: No moms! No moms! 
SAM: Dads? 
ASHLEY: Well. 
LAURA and LIAM: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: I don't know. It's a vibe situation. I would never do that. I would never do that. 
LIAM: I don't-- Not two times. 
ASHLEY: No. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: No, not two times. 
LIAM: I don't know how widespread the Tempest's situation is. 
MARISHA: Oh, sure. 
LIAM: I just don't know. 
LAURA: We won't mention it. 
LIAM: No. 
ASHLEY: Oh, okay. 
SAM: I feel like now that you've planted that, I'm going to mention it. Now I'm on edge that I'm going to blurt it out or something. 
ASHLEY: It's like a big red button. 
LIAM: How's your wheel? 
SAM: Oh. I mean, it's fine. I haven't put on chains yet or anything. 
LIAM: Not that one. That one. 
SAM: Oh! This wheel! It's okay. It's okay. 
LIAM: Stress feels good? 
SAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah! 
LIAM: Okay. 
SAM: I'm shy. 
LAURA and MATT: (laugh) (laughter) 
MATT: A short time later, you begin to smell the scent of freshly baked goods, and within only a few moments past that a plate emerges, steam rising off of it. As Alma hands out to you a cluster of already made muffins with honey drizzled across the top that's begun to drip onto the plate and a stacked batch of six carrot bran muffin. 
LAURA: Oh my god! 
MATT: With the same honey across the front. 
LIAM: Shit! I want it! 
ASHLEY: Me too! 
LIAM: Put it as an insert in the cookbook. 
TALIESIN: (moans) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Give me, give me. 
TALIESIN: Free PDF download. 
MATT: "Well, how long do we have you? Are you here for a bit?" 
LIAM: (mouth full) Oh my god. I don't know-- (muffin obscures speech) 
LAURA: Not very long, unfortunately. 
ASHLEY: That was delicious! 
MATT: "Understood." 
SAM: But maybe after we get back, we could hang out. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: We're going to go somewhere and then come back. 
LAURA: We're just running a little errand. 
MATT: "Oh wonderful!" 
LIAM: Yeah. Tempest has a bit of business for us. What's the news lately? Apart from that? 
MATT: "That's been a lot of the news, to be honest. Mainly just trying to keep the children calm. There's a lot of questions and odd dreams and people just feeling uneasy with a lot of things. The Tempest has been gone for some time, as far as most folks are concerned. I know that she's resting from the previous battle." 
LIAM: Yeah, we met up with Leeta. She says that the Tempest is figuring things out. 
MATT: "Yeah. She tells me things I probably shouldn't know, but she comes by to make sure that I have some company from time to time." 
LIAM: She better. 
MATT: "But honestly, just trying to make sure everyone's staying together. I worry about you, Orym. You carry a lot of weight on your face." 
LIAM: Oh, Mom. I mean, that's what I sign up for. 
MATT: "I know." 
LIAM: You know, her trust keeps me going, and now these guys do, too. I'm not alone. 
MATT: "I'm glad for that for all of you." 
ASHLEY: These are-- 
SAM: Was-- Oh, sorry. No, go on! Oh, you're-- 
ASHLEY: These are excellent! I have a question, being that you are a midwife. Have you ever birthed any children under the Ruidus moon? 
MATT: "Intentionally, no." 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
MATT: "There have been some near births, but some parents, through long taught Ashari techniques of childbirth to sustain the labor until flares had come to an end so as not to bring a child into the world with the threat of superstition. Children can be very mean." 
ASHLEY: Oh, yes, yes, yes. Very much so. 
MARISHA: They just suck it in! (laughs nervously) 
ASHLEY: Just hold it? 
MARISHA: That's-- Wow! 
MATT: "We're a hearty people." 
MARISHA: That's wild. 
LAURA: Have any children been born in the last couple days, or the last week, I guess? 
MATT: "No. No, I don't believe we have any children who are due for at least the next month, I believe." 
LAURA: All right. 
SAM: Speaking of children, what was Orym like as a kid? Was he always super serious like this? Or was he like a goofball? 
MATT: "I mean, he's always been a sweet little boy." 
SAM: That's how I think of him! 
MATT: "He's been a handsome, stoic, very physically active child." 
SAM: Oh yeah! Was he a captain of the football team? 
LIAM: I am a bit of a mama's boy. 
SAM: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Did you ever get in trouble? Was he a troublemaker? 
MATT: "Oh, all the time! He was also very curious and he would wander into whatever strange nooks and crannies of the town that he could, and get lost often, and we had to retrieve him." 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
LIAM: I have been pretty high up in the central tree here in town. 
TALIESIN: Hmm! 
ASHLEY and LAURA: Oh wow! 
MATT: "But he's a very good boy and he's made his mother very proud and many of us, very proud." 
LIAM: I hope I keep that up. 
MATT: "Oh, I'm sure you will. Just--" and she reaches out and taps your face, "Just don't be a hero if you don't need to be. All right? I want to see you come back home safe." 
LIAM: I only do what's called for, Mom. 
MATT: "Of course." 
SAM: Do you have any old, embarrassing paintings of him, like in a weird, awkward phase where he had really long hair and zits or anything? 
MATT: "No paintings, but I do have his baby booties and have kept one of his old nappies." 
SAM: Oh! 
LAURA: Oh! 
SAM: Like diapers? 
MATT: "Yes." 
SAM: Oh wow! I want to see it! 
MATT: "All right. I'll be right back." 
TALIESIN: I think I finally found my line. That's interesting. 
TRAVIS: What? An old diaper? 
SAM: Well, yeah. It's reusable. 
ASHLEY: What if we put Orym's baby booties on your wooden feet. (laughter) 
LAURA: Oh my gosh! 
LIAM: They would-- 
SAM: Are they bronzed? 
ASHLEY: Just a little flair! 
LIAM: -- never fit! They would be very small compared to your wooden feet. 
ASHLEY: Well, we could whittle them down! 
SAM: I think, no, my feet don't feel any pain. I'll just chop half of them off! 
MARISHA: How big are your feet now? Are they-- 
LAURA: They would be this big. 
LIAM: They're really small! 
LAURA: Little baby halfling feet. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, like my thumb. 
SAM: I'll just have little-- 
LIAM: They are very small. 
SAM: -- little thimbles at the end of my feet. 
LAURA: Teeny! 
LIAM: Yes. Yes. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
LAURA: Orym is like this tall. 
LIAM: Everybody imagine the babies in your life and then think even smaller. 
MARISHA: Even smaller. 
ASHLEY: Oh! (laughs) 
LAURA: Oh my god! 
MARISHA: So cute! 
LAURA: They'd be this big! 
LIAM: Way too big! Way too big! 
TRAVIS: Way too big. 
ASHLEY: Don't, don't, don't, don't. 
LAURA: They'd be like this big! A little halfling baby! 
MATT: Yeah, halfling babies are very tiny. 
TALIESIN: You'd have to-- 
LAURA: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: Oh my goodness! A little potato! 
LAURA: The size of a kitten! 
MARISHA: Yes. 
TALIESIN: These will fit a blueberry! I mean, yeah. 
MATT and ASHLEY: (laugh) 
LIAM: As a toddler climbing trees, I must have been like a marmoset. 
LAURA: Oh my god! 
ASHLEY: Yeah! 
MARISHA: Oh my god! 
ASHLEY: Full on blueberry. 
MATT: She returns with this fold-over leather satchel and opens it and rummages through it and pulls out a quilted blanket that's all pastel colors. Goes, "This is his blanky he used to sleep with!" 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
LIAM: Yeah, bring it on. 
SAM: That's like a napkin! 
LIAM: Bring it on. Bring it on. (laughter) 
LIAM: I'm not shy. It's fine. 
ASHLEY: It's a little handkerchief. 
MATT: "This was his nappy." She pulls out this little light green square piece of a material. 
MARISHA: Yeah, covered in shit. 
MATT: It has-- 
LIAM: I was a pooper. 
MATT: (laughs) It has a little vine embroidery on it. 
LAURA: It's the littlest thing-- 
MATT: Sets it over. "Oh, and here are his little boots!" Pulls up these tiny little knitted boots that are like that big. 
MARISHA: Oh my god! 
ASHLEY: Oh my goodness! 
LIAM: Now my feet are huge. (laughter) 
SAM: For a halfling. 
LIAM: (laughs) 
LAURA: Wow! 
LIAM: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Holy shit. 
LIAM: Do we need to pull out my yearbook to embarrass me further or are we done now? 
LAURA: No, we're good. We're good. We're good. 
LIAM: Zephran yearbook? Yep. What's going on? 
SAM: Sorry, I was plugging Marisha back in. 
MARISHA: Just, you know. Just, you know. 
TRAVIS: I'm trying to put your boots on! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: It won't fit! 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: Marisha was losing power. 
LAURA and MARISHA: (laugh) 
MATT: (laughs) 
LIAM: Well, Mom, we have to run an errand for the Tempest. 
MATT: "Of course, of course!" 
LIAM: Got duty for us, but I think we might be in and out for a few days before I have to head out again. 
MATT: "All right." 
LIAM: Is it okay if I stay here when we're back? 
MATT: "Sure! Of course! Your room has always been here at the ready. Will your friends be staying as well? I could--" 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: "All right, I can go ahead and set things up a bit." 
LAURA: No-- 
TALIESIN: Well, we'll-- 
MARISHA: We can find an inn nearby. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, we don't want to-- 
LAURA: It's beautiful here. 
SAM: Another inn? 
TALIESIN: Give you all some private time, too. I'm sure it's been a while. 
MATT: "Very well. Well you're all welcome, if you choose." 
TRAVIS: Oh, that's very gracious! 
ASHLEY: Thank you. 
MARISHA: We can try and help the economy. 
SAM: Oh! 
TALIESIN: I'll be back for some of those. Those are really good! Yeah. 
LIAM: Orym eyeballs Chetney. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Yeah! (laughs) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
LIAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: You have to sign a waiver because you're going to fall off a cliff. 
LIAM: All right. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
LIAM: All right. Well, I wish we could stay a little longer, but we should get going. 
MATT: "Of course." 
LAURA: Nice to meet you, Alma. Should we take some of those muffins for the road? 
MATT: "Please! Please, take them!" 
LIAM: Yes, please. 
TALIESIN: Yes, please, if that's okay. 
MATT: "I'm not going to finish them, so take them for yourselves." 
SAM: Can I ask? Can I have the recipe? Because I can bake sometimes, too, and maybe I can make them for your son on the road. 
MATT: "Sure!" Let me write it down for you. I'll be right back." She goes back into the kitchen and you hear her humming some more as she is scratching something down on-- You see a little piece of graphite that she's scratching on a rolled out piece of parchment. Coming back and rolling it up and says, "It's not very complicated. I think you should be able to follow it just fine." 
SAM: Oh! Okay! These are carrot muffins? What did you say? 
ASHLEY: Bran carrot. 
TALIESIN: Carrot bran. 
LIAM: Bran carrot. Ah, that sounds so good. 
TALIESIN: With a honey glaze. 
ASHLEY: Honey biscuits. 
MATT: "They don't need the honey glaze but it does help it go down. If you don't have the honey glaze, I would recommend some sort of a fruit juice or at least a cold water. Otherwise it'll dry out the inside of your mouth a bit." 
SAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Honey glaze. 
TALIESIN: Honey glazes. 
SAM: Yeah, I'm on it. I'll try my best. 
TRAVIS: You should know, I've thrown this together quick and dirty, but I made this for you. It's a little wooden statue of Orym who's in a deep, deep lunge with his sword out and holding up his shield over his back as he does so. 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
MATT: "Oh!" 
TRAVIS: Your son is actually quite the hero. He saved our rear ends a number of times. So hold on to that if you're ever missing him. He's quite the warrior. You should be very proud. 
MATT: "That is so sweet!" 
MARISHA: He's quite the artist. 
MATT: "My goodness! Oh! What's it say on the side?" 
SAM: Yeah. 
MARISHA: What's it say on the side? 
TRAVIS: It says C-POP. 
SAM: Oh. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: Oh, you branded it! 
MARISHA: Branded it! 
SAM: That's okay! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: One of one! One of one! 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yeah yeah yeah. 
MATT: "It's just like your old toys." 
TRAVIS: It's also my phone number, if you want. 
LIAM: You still have those, right? You didn't toss them out, did you? 
MATT: "No, no! Of course I haven't." She goes back into the satchel-- 
SAM: Mint in box. 
MATT: -- and pulls out this small wooden eagle that's flying with it wings out and the wings are somewhat jointed and it has C-POP on the side. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
SAM: Oh! You had C-POP toys growing up! 
LIAM: Wait a minute. I'm putting two and two together. 
SAM: Whoa! 
LIAM: Wait a minute! Orym starts looking at the bottom of all these wooden statues. Does it say C-POP on all of these? 
MATT: On four of them. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MARISHA: You're so prolific! 
LAURA: Oh! 
LIAM: (wind gathering) (explosion) 
SAM: Whoa. 
TRAVIS: What? Did you think I was playing? 
LAURA: No, I knew. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LIAM: Kind of. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: I'm a world changer, motherfucker! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Wow! 
LIAM: Wow! 
MARISHA: That eagle is-- 
TRAVIS: I've been with you longer than you know. 
LIAM and LAURA: (laugh) 
LIAM: Did you create my childhood, Chetney? 
MARISHA: Wow! 
LIAM: Did you create Optimus Prime? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Killed him, too! (laughter) (laughter) (laughter) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Oh man! 
MATT: "This is incredibly kind, Chet-- Chetney!" 
TRAVIS: Chetney. 
MATT: "Chetney." 
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: "I will cherish it. Your craftsmanship speaks for itself. I am very grateful to have a gift to remind me of my son by such a handsome man." 
TRAVIS: Oh! Thank you! 
LIAM: Cool. It's cool. 
MARISHA: Oh, going to fuck his mom! 
LAURA: Uh-huh. 
TALIESIN: It just somehow keeps getting weirder. Okay. 
TRAVIS: It's called gravity. Sometimes it's law of nature. 
MATT: She goes and places it on this very prominent displayed shelf. She removes a small pot with a flower emerging from it and puts it on top and sets it, turns it a little bit, looks at it, turns it a little more, stops. "(hum of satisfaction)" 
ASHLEY: Good for her! 
LIAM: (laughs) Orym. Orym, his eyes go. Mom. Chetney. Chetney. Fearne. Fearne. Chetney. Chetney. Mom. 
SAM: Oh no! 
ASHLEY: I'm just staring at your mom. 
LIAM: I really hate to leave as soon as we got here, but the task that the Tempest has given us is pretty urgent. So we should-- 
ASHLEY: Your baking. It was so good! 
SAM: You never knew your father. I'm going to do a perception check. Is there any bone structure, sort of-- 
ASHLEY: Oh! (laughter) 
TALIESIN: I mean, I was thinking it. (laughter) 
LIAM: Do I look gnomish? 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
SAM: Or investigation. I don't know what it would be. Oh shit! Four. 
LAURA: Aw! 
MATT: No idea. 
TRAVIS: Thank you again for the biscuits. It's been a pleasure seeing you. Seeing you. 
MATT: (laughs) "Well, you all take care of my boy, and when you come back around, there'll be more muffins to enjoy." 
LAURA: I'm going to insight check! Does she look like she remembers Chet at all? 
MATT: Sure. Make an insight check. 
TALIESIN: Oh god! I'm dying! 
ASHLEY: Guidance! Or wait, I wouldn't know. (laughter) 
LAURA: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Oh, whoa! 
LAURA: 24! 
MATT: 24. Okay. (shouting) 
TALIESIN: Yay! 
MARISHA: Whispers! 
SAM: Oh, guys! We're coming to conventions! 
LIAM: Na-na-na, it can't hurt me! 
SAM: Check us out at conventions! Various conventions! 
TRAVIS: "It can't hurt me!" 
SAM: New York, Rose City. (laughter) 
LAURA: Okay. Hmm. (laughter) 
MATT: "Travel safe, my boy!" She goes and gives you a big hug. 
LIAM: Okay. Okay. We should be gone for like a day or two if plan all goes according to plan. 
MATT: "All right! Things don't always go as according to plan, so I'll play for three." 
LIAM: (sighs) No, they fucking don't, mom. No, they don't. 
ASHLEY: Language! My goodness! 
TALIESIN: That would be my influence. Sorry. Fuck! 
MATT: "You weren't the first." (laughter) 
SAM: Off we go! 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: So as you seek to gather some materials in advance of this, you are seeking-- 
LIAM: I think I would just go, or I assume I know a place since I'm part of the arms here where weaponry and armor are stored. 
MATT: Yeah. Yeah. 
LIAM: I want to gear up a little bit sturdier than I am. 
MATT: Oh yeah. 
TALIESIN: You point me-- 
MATT: Torth is a-- 
LIAM: Yeah, and I'm dragging Ashton in tow. 
TALIESIN: Yep! 
MATT: Torth is an older human. He looks dwarven, except for the proportions are definitely human, but he has that massive, thick, dark brown beard that comes to a blond bleach at the tips that goes down to mid-chest. 
LIAM: Did you say Torth? 
MATT: Torth. 
LIAM: Torth. 
MATT: Big broad shoulders. His legs didn't develop like the rest of his body, so he gets around with the help of two canes. He is strong and a focused craftsman and has been for quite some time, doing the primary weapons and armor for all the high ranking members of the Ashari here in Zephrah, as well as doing the occasional gifts to the other Ashari villages whenever there's a journey or pilgrimage for the Voice of the Tempest to present to them something on occasion. But as you approach the exterior of this smoking, billowing blacksmithy that sits within this one cavern that's on the far northeast end of Zephrah, with this little stone walkway that's covered in well-kept gardens that you know he tends to when nobody's looking, and you see the smoke that pours out the front of the cavern as well as the large plume that comes from the heavy chimney that's carved into the rock above. You hear the (metal clanging) and the flashes of flame and spark from the inside. As you enter, you can immediately smell the strong sense of a burning forge as well as a fine sage. You see them between strikes. He's putting sage and herbs across the metal, and as he hammers it in, it's like he's bringing elements of the natural space of Zephrah and that that has grown and lived there and pushing it into the metal. Normally, would not be something that strengthens it, but there is a hint of magic put between each scattering across the metal before he stops and notices your presence as you enter. Turns around and goes, "Hello, friends! I know you!" 
LIAM: Torth! It's good to breathe your work again. 
MATT: "Orym! Orym! It's been some time, been some time, indeed." 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LIAM: Years, I think. 
MATT: "You look quite strapping, strong. You've done some things." 
LIAM: Well, I'm a little taller, 3'3" now. Here with some friends. This friend and I need a bit of gear. 
TALIESIN: Hi. 
LIAM: I'm just running a little thin. Mine's wearing out. I need some leather work from you and I need to cover up a bit more than you see me now. 
MATT: "Right, right. I was given some heads up from Leeta that there was an expedition to go out shortly. I assume this is yours then?" 
LIAM: Yeah, that's us. (sighs) 
MATT: "Very well. Very well." 
LIAM: Do you have anything on hand, or do you need a bit of time to work? 
MATT: "Well, if you need something custom, I need quite some time to get it. But I do have a couple of things on hand that I could maybe loan out." 
LIAM: Hmm. I'll probably be good for a couple more days. How much time you need for something custom? I specifically am looking for more coverage on my shield arm. Legs as well. I don't want to go too heavy. That doesn't work for me. But right now, I feel like I need to be built of sterner stuff. 
MATT: "Right. Well, that can be done! Honestly, I could use the break from the heavy forges and get back to some proper leather work." 
TRAVIS: Yes! 
LIAM: What do you need, Ash? 
TALIESIN: I'm actually, I'm working on something a little less casual. Actually, if you do leather work, if you know anyone who also does, I don't know, some sewing, cloth tailoring, something like that, if you're up for that. 
MATT: "Old Fanny Z. She'll help you out." 
TALIESIN: Excellent. 
ALL: Fanny Z? 
LIAM: Faneasy? 
MATT: "Fanny Z." 
LIAM: Fanny Z? 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah, ol' Fanny Z! 
SAM: It's the last Fanny in the alphabet. 
TALIESIN: Fanny Zed. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: For the Brits. 
LIAM: Zephran fashion is pretty sick. She should do right by you. 
TALIESIN: Perfect! I will be right back, and I will head over to-- 
MATT: Okay, with a couple of guidance, you come to the abode of Fanny Z. It's a small, it looks like a gazebo with glass sides. It's a singular, pointed dome building with all these beautiful windows and filigree across the designs of it. The front door opens up slightly and it's a small chamber, probably could comfortably fit maybe three or four people, but the back walls are lined with all manner of bolts of interesting fabric and tanned leathers and leaves and vines that are made into strengthened cables. Everything here has a natural vibe with a couple of small bits of imports to be woven in for interest. There is this uniquely made up young woman in her mid-20s or so, human, with a, I can only describe it as a beehive hairdo that rises above the head and a spray of colors across her face. It's gone from casual, gentle makeup into like the most gorgeous drag makeup you've ever seen. 
MARISHA: Drag! 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
TALIESIN: Perfect! 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: She turns around and goes, "Hello, darling! Can I help you?" 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Actually, yes. I was hoping so. 
MARISHA: Yass! 
TALIESIN: I'm going through a bit of a life crisis at the moment. 
MATT: "Oh goodness! Welcome to the party!" 
TALIESIN: I had a funny feeling. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
TALIESIN: I was hoping that you could help me be my best self. I feel like I'm-- I feel like I want to inspire people. I want a bit of the feeling of a champion. I've been running around trying to help people, trying to-- (sighs) Trying to do some good. I feel like maybe a hint of that in the outfit might be a good idea. 
MATT: "Oh honey, that's quite an ask in just a bit of a design! Do you have any other inspirations? Like give me something beyond just aesthetic. I can definitely put that in there, but do you want-- 
TALIESIN: Well-- 
MATT: "What?" 
TALIESIN: I do have-- I throw the hole open and chunks of kind of clothing come flying out, a few pieces. 
LIAM: They've got bodies in them. 
TALIESIN: A pair of boots that are fucked all up. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: The stench. 
TALIESIN: I close it. I crawl back out. So I stole most of these from a friend of mine who has much better taste than I do. I don't know, a little bit more color, a little bit-- 
MATT: "Anti-hero chic?" 
SAM: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Yeah, a bit more intentional. Yeah, that's exactly it. 
LIAM: Legendary hero, but make it fashion. 
TALIESIN: Oh! 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: You read my mind! 
MATT: "I love it! I'll see what I can do. I'll get some sketches up for you. How soon do you need this by?" 
TALIESIN: In a few days. I actually-- I mean, I don't even need sketches. Just go crazy and if I want to alter it, I'll just give it a rip and a tear myself. 
MATT: "Ooh, trust! I like that." 
TALIESIN: You have a lot of taste going on. 
MATT: "Oh, well. Don't I know it. All right, give me a few days, come back, and then we'll see how you strike the landscape as the hero that you're trying to be." 
TALIESIN: I love everybody in this town. This is amazing! 
LIAM: It is a pretty chill town. 
TALIESIN: (exhales) See you in a few days. 
MATT: Turns around as you're leaving, "What a strange hunk!" 
LAURA and ASHLEY: (laugh) 
TALIESIN: Yes! 
MATT: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Boom! 
MARISHA: Everyone's getting fucked in Zephrah! 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Zephrah fucks! 
LIAM: My mom's-- 
TALIESIN: Zephrah's for fuckers! (laughter) 
LIAM: My mom's busy. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Whitestone's for lovers. 
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Zephrah's for fuckers. (laughter) 
LIAM: Motherfuckers! 
MATT: Zephrah's essentially just Ojai. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Let's be real. 
LIAM: It is, it is, it is! 
MARISHA: It is Ojai. 
TALIESIN: Oh no! 
MATT: Oh yeah. There's yurts and shit on these mountains. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Fuck. Oh man! 
LAURA: I want to make a shirt that just says, "Zephrah fucks!" 
MATT: Oh yeah. (laughter) 
MATT: There's sunrise yoga every morning out there in Zephrah. 
SAM: Put it in the store. 
LAURA: Yeah. (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Fuck. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Little crystals. 
TALIESIN: Lot of very flexible people. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: While they were doing all that, I'm-- 
SAM: With a P-H for "phucks". 
MARISHA: -- cuddled up with the witches out on the balcony on the cliff edge and I've taken Pâté and I attached a ribbon to him and I tossed him up and I'm flying him like a kite (laughter) off the edge. 
MATT: He's like, "Hey!" (laughter) 
MATT: "We're really high!" (laughter) 
MARISHA: Let the slack out little for him. 
MATT: "Whoa!" 
MARISHA: See how far he can go. (laughter) 
MATT: "A little nervous up here!" 
MARISHA: You're fine. 
MATT: "There's a big hawk circling!" (laughter) 
MATT: "I don't think he wants to be friends!" (laughter) 
LIAM: (squeals) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: (hawk calls) 
MARISHA: (sighs) (laughs) 
MATT: All right. Any other business here in the town? 
SAM: Nope. 
MATT: All right. 
LIAM: Yeah, it can all wait 'til we get back. 
SAM: Get back. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Let's go find a fucking flower! 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: As you finish the business you had to set in motion-- 
LIAM: This flower is fucked. 
MATT: -- you find Maeve is waiting for you not far from the tree where you entered. You can see the rest of the advisors and protectors of the Tempest there, gathered as well, and the Blades, the Tempest Blades, all gathering to see you off. Maeve approaches. "I've heard what you're off to do and appreciate you all putting yourselves on the line for some good people, including the future of Zephrah. So, happy to help in whatever way I can." She looks over at Leeta and Leeta nods and she pulls off her shoulder this big, empty, heavy backpack that has a number of straps across it. It looks like it would be quite sizeable. You could probably carry Orym and then some in it. Hands it over to you and says, "Best that we can tell given the state of the Tempest, and if we can, the other current warriors who they wounded by this toxin, you would want to fill the majority of this bag before you return." 
LAURA: Wow! 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: "So good luck." 
LIAM: We'll fill this up and I'm going to bring you your sister back. 
MATT: "Of course. Also--" She reaches into her own side pouch and you hear the clinging of glass. Leans over and pulls out-- 
LAURA: Oh yeah, we can heal, but we can't-- 
TALIESIN: Oh. 
LAURA: I mean, we can heal, but we can't revive. 
LIAM: It's just wine bottles. 
MATT: Yep. 
LAURA: Which is scary. 
TALIESIN: That'll do! 
SAM: Oh! 
LAURA: Oh no! That means we're going to find some really scary things. 
TRAVIS: No, it doesn't! 
SAM: No! 
MATT: We have two greater and one superior healing potion. 
TRAVIS: That is a chonky boy! 
LIAM: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Healing supreme. 
MARISHA: Wow. Yeah. 
TALIESIN: It's got sour cream. 
LIAM: We can sit on that one. 
MARISHA: I was going to say, it's got sour cream. 
LAURA: Crunchwrap. 
TALIESIN and MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: "I'd offer more, but most of them had gone to the previous battle with most of our warriors there. This is the best that we have left that can be mustered in the time given, but hopefully it'll be of service to all of you." 
LIAM: We'll put them to good use. 
TRAVIS: You have some for yourself, just in case. I mean, gods forbid-- 
MATT: "We keep a minimum on hand." 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MATT: "These are just what we could spare." 
LAURA: Thank you. 
LIAM: You didn't have to. It's kind. 
MATT: "Of course I had to, brother." 
LIAM: Well, soon as we go, the sooner we get back. 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: "Indeed." Looks over and Leeta steps up a bit and pats you on the shoulder, looks past at the rest of you. "He'd be very proud of you." 
LIAM: He throws his arms around the knees of both the sisters and hugs them. Okay, well, that's good. We'll see you soon. 
MATT: "Indeed. We will." 
LIAM: Then Orym is going to turn to all the Blades that are here and just hold this sword up. 
MATT: You watch as about two dozen Ashari warriors all raise their blades directly afterward and give a similar flick of the wrist and then sheath that again. You now, watching all the forms that you've seen Orym practice at the time of your journeys, you can see an entire regiment or at least what regiment is present, are all practiced of the same well-controlled art of the blade. 
LAURA: But they can't do as many sit-ups as you, though. 
LIAM: Nobody can. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: (laughs) Leeta goes, "(clears throat) We'll see." (laughter) 
MATT: She gives a nod and you see Maeve, who steps back a little bit. You see this nervousness in her face. Looks over to the massive cherry blossom tree that sits at the edge of the cliff and thinks for a second, reaches into her pouch, and pulls out one little blue petal. Hands it up. "This is what you're looking for." 
LAURA: (whispers) Do you have Locate Object? 
SAM: Not today. 
TRAVIS: Grows in the trees, in the fields? 
MATT: "Grows in clusters in the fields. Not a lot of color out there from what I know of, so it should be easy to see from a distance." 
LAURA: All right. 
MATT: "For you and whatever else is out there. Anyway." Hands it over, concentrates for a second, looks towards the tree, and as she places her hands like this and as the separation motion of the tree (whooshes) opens up into a glowing doorway for but a brief moment. You can see the extended pathway within and beyond it, this slight glimmer of a black and white monochrome nature beyond. 
LAURA: Let's go. 
MARISHA: Six seconds. 
TALIESIN: All through. 
LIAM: Orym's the last one out and just says: Kaitiakè. 
MATT: "Kaitiakè." (whooshes) And we're going to go break. 
TRAVIS: (shouts) 
LAURA: (groans) 
LIAM: Woo! (shouting) 
TRAVIS: Good job, son. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: (laughs) Good job, son. (laughter) 
LIAM: I'm here for it! 
TRAVIS and LAURA: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: Oh man! Oh man! 
MATT: Looked at my notes. I had written the flower's named perennem. Misspoke, and you know what? There it is. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Forevermore canon. 
LAURA: Blue perinum? Is it supposed to be blue perinum? 
MATT: Forever canon. It is instead the blue perennem ("perinum"). 
LAURA: (laughs) 
SAM: Matt, if you had said blue perinum, the same thing would've happened. 
MATT: Probably. Probably. 
LAURA: Oh my god! But the fact that it's just straight up perineum is-- 
LIAM: Then it was like-- 
MATT: I've been hearing that word too often from you anyway, so this is partially-- 
MARISHA: Yeah! Same, same. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: We would've still attached it to our ball sack. 
LIAM: It was followed up with things like valley, Red Center. (laughter) 
LAURA: Frozen in dark nooks and crannies! 
TALIESIN: Yep. 
TRAVIS: Soak up that vitamin D! 
MATT: Sometimes I have no way to win and it's my fault every time. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: But that's okay. 
LIAM: You know, if you invent 1,000 words a month, we're going to torture you with one of them. 
MATT: That's okay. That's okay. 
ASHLEY: I'm sorry I laughed. 
MATT: Don't apologize! Don't you dare apologize! 
TRAVIS: Don't you dare! 
MATT: Don't you dare apologize. 
ASHLEY: Because I got the giggles. (laughs) 
LIAM: I'm just glad we don't have to find any taint weed. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: Yet. 
LAURA: Yet. 
TRAVIS: From the grundle woods. 
MATT: But nevertheless, (laughs) be back here in a few minutes. We'll see you shortly. 
TRAVIS and MATT: (laugh)

Break[]
GRACE: Did you lose your keys, Fred? 
GRACE: I thought you’d be- 
GRACE: What the- 
GRACE: CALLIOPE!? 
CALLIOPE: I’m so sorry... 
PAN: Grace, you know that you’re lost now... 
PAN: You’ve been given powers you don’t understand. 
ATHENA: You say you didn’t kill Calliope. 
ATHENA: You have one week to prove it. 
GRACE: What do I do? 
PAN: Start singing. 
GRACE: So sorry you had to be here for this... 
GRACE: I’m in the dark too as you’re hearing this. 
GRACE: But someone is dead and I’m losing my head. 
GRACE: Like the goat said... 
GRACE: This is my time... 
GRACE: time to shine... 
APOLLO: It’s not a simple matter to kill an idol. 
PERSEPHONE: You want answers? 
PERSEPHONE: Fight for them! 
APOLLO: How could you throw that gauntlet at me... 
APOLLO: could your heart shrivel any further? 
PERSEPHONE: You abandoned me to a terrible fate... 
APOLLO: This is not about you... 
APOLLO: ENOUGH! 
APOLLO: True magic is a different and older power. 
APOLLO: Ready to face the music? 
GRACE: Only you can decide... 
GRACE: Lost in a moment, lost in a song... 
GRACE: You’re always looking out for me, Freddie. 
FREDDIE: Best friends to the end, right? Lost in a moment, lost in a song... 
GRACE: I wish I knew where I fit. 
CALLIOPE: Surely your life is just beginning. Lost in a moment... 
ATHENA: Very soon... Lost in a moment... 
ATHENA: The idols will be no more. Lost in a moment... 
(light music) 
NARRATOR: Introducing "One-Shot Wonders," a marvellous tome containing over a hundred unique and inspiring session ideas for 5th Edition games. (light music) Everything you need for your next one-shot or side quest is covered in two pages or less, making your session easy to prep and easy to run. (light music) Theme markers and an introduction help you to choose the kind of game you'd like to play at a glance. (light music) Within the Story Structure, you'll find key scenes to guide your players through the adventure while giving them space to explore and create their own path. Quick Stats are included for creatures and characters you'll meet along the way. Descriptions of important locations and characters are provided for you to read aloud at the table along with additional story context for the GM's eyes only. Adventures contain secrets and clues to enrich role play and reward inquisitive players. The Level box suggests how to increase or lower the difficulty of any adventure to suit your party. From haunted towers to dragon encounters, discover the perfect story for any session. (light music) Pre-order your copy of "One-Shot Wonders" now at rollandplaypress.com. (light music) Your next adventure starts here.
(light music) (mysterious music) 
LAURA: Hey Critters! Laura Bailey here to guide you through what's new in the Critical Role shop. You need this? You probably need this. Can you put donuts in this? Only one way to find out. (gasp) Could anything be more perfect? It's the little things in life. Look at this. Isn't it fashion? So much fashion happening here. This is seriously magical. Go ahead darling, treat yourself. It's so cute. I can't handle it. And hey if you want, you could head over to the Critical Role shop right now. 
(adventurous music) (tense mysterious music) 
TALIESIN: A lonely road lies ahead for those whose minds have been cracked asunder. Echoes of past deeds, swirl and bubble to the surface, seeking to fracture the grail of our existence. A wary investigator must stay headstrong and resolved, for this treacherous path may falter judgment, if not careful. A voracious hunger stalks the shadow-filled streets, feeding on the impulses of both ne'er-do-wells and those of the strongest moral fiber. Candela and their circles often serve as the last line of defense, putting themselves in harm's way to contain, comprehend, and contend with the horrors that lie in wait. The Circle of The Vassal and the Veil: Assignment Number 442: Ravage of Red Lamp. 
(tense mysterious music continues) 
Hi. We're the narrators of Midst. What's Midst? It's very simple. It's a weird surrealist fourth wall breaking reality bending science, fantasy space western about a small, doomed planet floating in a cosmic ocean of spooky darkness. Upon whose alien landscape an ensemble cast of characters, including a crotchety outlaw, a freakishly virtuous cultist and a weird, diabolical bastard, make awful decisions and fight like hell to survive when the moon falls out of the sky and a large number of terrible things happened in rapid succession. It's exciting, it's funny, it's scary. It's got neat sound, weird music, amazing visuals, and every episode comes with bonus content you can read and examine. Midst is performed solely by yours truly. As the three of us narrate all the action, play all of the characters, and bend a lot of the rules about how telling stories is normally supposed to work. Midst is pretty fun, very strange, and it feels like VR for your brain. We believe you'll enjoy it. Or maybe you won't, but there's really only one way to find out. You're going to have to listen to Midst. 
(epic music) (mischievous music) (typewriter clacking) (peaceful music) 
Oh hey, everyone. It's me, Jester. So the Traveler and I were going to tell you guys all about subscribing to Twitch, but it sort of seems like he's not really here right now, which is so stupid. Traveler? Traveler? Arty. (grunts) You know what, it's fine. I can do it by myself, with myself. I invoke Duplicity. Oh, hello Jester. Hi Jester. Okay, so what we're going to do today is tell the people at home all about the good stuff they get when subscribing to Twitch. Oh, I dunno what Twitch is, but that sounds good, let's go. No, that's perfect, 'cause this works for you too then. Okay so, there's a professionally moderated live chat, and if you subscribe, you can post the links in the chat. Like a link to a cool hamster video? Exactly like that. So what we do here is tell like, really cool stories, right? And sometimes like crazy shit happens when we're telling those stories, and people that subscribe get special emotes so you can express how you feel. What if you live on the side of Exandria where it's really late, and you're like, "I'm just gonna close my eyes for a few seconds," and then it's two hours, and the music is playing, and you're like, "Oh no, I missed the whole show." Oh no, that's a great question. Well, if you subscribe to Twitch, then you can just watch all of our VODs as soon as the live broadcast ends. So cool, right? So cool. I know. Another really cool thing is you can gift subscriptions to people. Like I could buy a subscription for you, duplicate Jester, and for other p-- What are you doing? Look what I found. Oh my gosh, paint brushes. I could draw a dick. Oh, well, technically, technically that might break Twitch's terms of service, so. But, there's no rule against, like, drawing chubby little snakes. (giggles) Yeah, or, or a really long balloon sword. Yeah, or like a really thick rope, with like, two hunky knots at the end of it. Cucumber, with two tomatoes, Yeah, a banana, you know, sitting next to an onion and an avocado. Like a mushroom, with like a little cap on it. A wiener dog, with just two feet. Yeah. Arty, where are you? Should we go look for him? Yeah, sure, why not. Oh, don't forget to subscribe to Critical Role. Okay, let's go. Okay. (whimsical music) 

Part II[]
MARISHA: Oh yeah! 
MATT: And welcome back. 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
MARISHA: Oh yeah! Oh, I appreciate it. 
TRAVIS: (as Kermit the Frog) Kermit the Frog here. 
MARISHA and LAURA: (laugh) 
SAM: We're back! 
MATT: Upon stepping through the other side of this portal, one by one your feet meet dusty ground. The crunch of dried vegetation in shale skipping beneath your boots. 
LAURA: (lips vibrate) 
MATT: As you emerge here in the center of the Grey Valley-- 
TRAVIS: Shit, we're in the center? 
MATT: Best you can tell. Somewhere. You're not near a mountain range, at least for now. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: You can see the broken valley around you. The ever gray skies above choked with clouds and most color, except for the occasional golden shaft of light that punches through and then is swallowed once more a moment later. You can see the valley floor spreading out, scattered and uneven around you, an endless blanket of pale trees jutting up from the roots and rock and bush, frozen in stone-like repose as they reach for the sky above, balding branches clutching colorless leaves, cold wind blows through the region in rhythmic gusts, the smell of ash and burned fat occasionally catches your nose. 
LIAM: Well, this is a big 180. 
LAURA: How are we going to find these flowers? 
SAM: Oh! I don't have Locate Object because I didn't know we were going on a fetch quest thing today, but I could ask the Changebringer to guide us towards them. Do we have... We just see the immediate area in front of us? Is there-- 
MATT: Just the immediate area in front. 
LIAM: Sorry. Wide open and flat or-- 
LAURA: There are trees. 
MATT: It is very much a dense valley forest. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Mind you, all the trees around here are blanched, and, while there are leaves on there, the leaves themselves are also white and gray, like ancient paper imitations of leaves at this point. It looks pretty dense around you. This is not a forest that has been carved and used for much lumber, at least not enough to the point where you can see signs of civilization. From where you stand, it's all these clustered stalks that shoot up into the sky, twisting as they reach up, and branches that reach out. You can barely see the surrounding mountain range that sits like a crown around the valley at certain sides of the gray sky above. 
LAURA: Does it feel like we're on colored television while everything else is black and white? 
MATT: A little bit. 
LAURA: Mm. 
MATT: The valley itself sits at a slight angle. It's not a perfect valley in the center. It's at a slight angle, so you can just see what you gather to be the southern direction. You can see just beyond where the valley slopes downward and you can see the tops of trees around. It does shift and change topography bits here and there. You can see where the Cliffkeep give way into the distant, distant grass fields of the Dividing Plains, miles and miles and miles away. 
LIAM: Are we able to vaguely see in any way the peak of Zephrah? 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
TALIESIN: Should we climb a tree or something? 
TRAVIS: It's so far. It's from there to there. 
LIAM: Yeah. I got good perception. That is a 27. 
MATT: 27. You cannot see the peak. You can see maybe on the far, far distant horizon, with your eagle-like ridiculous perception eyes, a mountain range shadow that likely could be the one that houses the village Zephrah. But it is very, very far away. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: Did they give us any-- They weren't like, "Go northeast to find..." It was nothing. 
LAURA: It grows in the valleys or in the-- 
ASHLEY: It grows in clusters. 
LAURA: Yeah. With your eagle vision-- 
LIAM: It's all the carrot bran muffins. Yeah. 
LAURA: Do you see-- (laughs) Do you see any blue? Because I only see gray. 
LIAM: Well, do you want a different perception check for that? 
MATT: Yes, I would. 
LIAM: Yeah. Okay. 
MARISHA: Too many carrots-- 
LIAM: Couldn't be that lucky. That is a 30. 
MATT: That is a 30. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: You look about the immediate vicinity and you feel confident that, from where you stand, there's no signs of anything blue or blue-like. There are shades of purple, dull brown, every now and then a bit of moss that might carry a glimmer of green, but most of it here is just colorless. 
TALIESIN: You think getting a treetop vantage might be the way to go or-- 
LAURA: Or we just start walking and-- 
LIAM: I mean, we probably won't see flowers from the top of a tree. I don't know which way is-- 
TALIESIN: Will they grow-- 
MARISHA: I could do a little Pâté scout. 
TALIESIN: Ooh! 
MARISHA: In the surrounding area. 
SAM: Are there any flat rocks or flat surfaces or anything around us? Or even flat earth? 
MATT: Immediately around you? No. But you can begin to search for them as you-- 
MARISHA: Why? What are you looking for? 
SAM: Well, I just, I wanted to ask the Changebringer. Well, here, I can just do it. I can just do it on my arm, I guess. I'll hold up my arm, take out my Changebringer coin. It's not really a flat surface. 
LIAM: On my shield? 
SAM: Yeah! 
TALIESIN: That's awesome. Well. 
SAM: I will... Ooh! Yeah, the inside of the shield, almost like, what are those things? 
MARISHA: Those like-- 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: Uh-huh. 
LIAM: Send a penny down. 
MARISHA: Yeah, those are cool. 
SAM: I'll drop-- (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Those are cool. (laughter) 
MARISHA: They're in every science museum. 
SAM: I'm going to ask the Changebringer and I'm going to cast Divination. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: I'm going to ask-- 
LAURA: It's going to spin for so long in this thing! 
SAM: I'm going to ask the Changebringer, I'm going to-- 
MARISHA: We should get two coins, see if the crash! 
SAM: I'm going to roll this coin around. Changebringer, can you please, as the coin settles. Can you look in the direction that would bring us towards the flowers we seek? Guide us with your vision. And I'll roll it! It's a critical roll. 
MATT: (laughs) All right. Mm-hmm. 
LIAM: We all stare for two minutes. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
MATT: All right. 
MARISHA: It's very hypnotic, though. 
MATT: The coin continues to (blows) 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
MATT: As it continues to curve around, you, focusing on it, the magical threads that you wove as part of this ritual keep your focus entirely on this coin. You feel your periphery begin to blur, like tunnel vision takes over, like the moment that you, Sam Riegel, when you are low on breath, you can feel like the darkness begin to bring you towards passing out. It's that sort of tunnel vision focus on there for Fresh Cut Grass. 
SAM: When I'm almost... 
MATT: (laughs) 
SAM: Yeah? 
MATT: Yeah. Sure. 
TRAVIS: Putting on a necktie? 
SAM: Uh-huh. 
MATT: (laughs) 
LIAM: Oh boy! 
TRAVIS: Sorry, Q. 
MATT: (laughing) Sorry, Q! (laughter) 
SAM: Yeah. Me, Sam Riegel. 
MATT: Yeah. 
SAM: Uh-huh. 
MATT: Anyway. 
TALIESIN: This is the day we're having. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LIAM: You can't tell them that stuff. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: Rocks falls, everyone dies. 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
LIAM: (laughs) 
MATT: No. As you watch this happen, you can feel threads of web or hair drifting past your head and you feel two hands touch on your shoulder, sourcelessly. As the hair blows past your periphery, it's like you have extended hair that the wind is picking up and blowing. (soft, whisping blows) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: One of the hands reaches out from your periphery and plucks the coin. 
SAM: Oh, cool! 
MATT: All the rest of you watch the coin full spin-- (low roll) (snap) 
SAM: Oh! 
MATT: And it just stops. 
ASHLEY: Ah! 
MATT: As it holds there in place, it falls onto its side in a western direction. 
SAM: Whoa! Amazing! 
LAURA: Yeah, that was impressive! 
SAM: I mean! 
ASHLEY: Did you move the shield? Was you doing anything to move it around? 
MARISHA: That was one of the most impressive things I've seen with a coin thus far. That's good. That's great! 
SAM: I'm growing on you. Ashton, any faith restored in you? 
TALIESIN: I genuinely do not know what you're talking about. 
SAM: All right. 
MARISHA: Hmm. 
SAM: Well, thank you, Changebringer! 
LAURA: Actually, yes. Thank you, Changebringer. I mean, if she's guiding us to ways to heal Keyleth, that's-- 
ASHLEY: Thank you. 
LAURA: That's great! 
SAM: Yeah. Let's go! 
MARISHA: Just really quick, do we see any type of any birds, any creatures, any birds of prey? 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
MARISHA: Okay. 19. 
MATT: 19. There are a number of winged creatures flying through the skyline, some at a great distance, like a flock of some sort of a bird that's traversing. You do occasionally see some large winged circling creatures that appear to be hunting. You're uncertain the full distance. But you do see throughout this valley there are predators that fly above. 
MARISHA: All right. 
TRAVIS: To piggyback on that, with that smell of burning fat, can I take a double deep diving dog sniff (sniffs) of the air and try and get an idea of a direction, or what it could be, or-- 
MATT: Yes, you may. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Perception? (laughs) I can't do this. Fucking 15. 15. 
MATT: 15? 
MARISHA: Just keep rolling like dog shit? Your perception's really high for doing that, right? 
TRAVIS: No, no, no. 
MARISHA: No? 
TRAVIS: It's not great. 
MATT: For this, actually, I would say make this religion. 
SAM: What? 
MATT: You have advantage on this, if you hadn't already rolled with it. 
TRAVIS: I do. Hunter's Bane. 
LAURA: Ooh! 
MARISHA: It's a tiger shark. 
TRAVIS: That's much better. 
MARISHA: A what?! 
TRAVIS: 19. 
MARISHA: From Jaws, that one-- 
MATT: 19. 
SAM: I've never seen Jaws. 
MATT: The smell, it smells like burned fat, charred wax. But you know this specifically-- 
MARISHA: Cocaine Bear and Jaws. 
MATT: -- to be one of a number of scents that accompanies fiendish creatures that walk and punch through the veil between worlds. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: Some of it can linger. It's stronger at the moment of stepping through, but it follows and trails behind such creatures. This isn't particularly strong. You pick it up on the wind a little bit as unique, but it does immediately set you to attention that there are extraplanar entities likely lurking in this space. 
TRAVIS: (growls) (snarls) 
ASHLEY: What you sniffs? What you sniffs? 
TRAVIS: (wolven panting) Sorry. Habit. So there's a smell in the wind. You can smell it's kind of burning, kind of a charred. 
LIAM: Like tallow? 
ASHLEY: I have a little bit of allergies today. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, it usually comes along with fiendish entities from another realm. You remember the story about how they fought a demon prince, devil prince kind of a thing? I think we should keep our eyes open for that kind of stuff. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
LIAM: Have you hunted demons before? 
TRAVIS: No. No. But just kind of... Hmm. No, but just keep that in mind as you prepare for an encounter. It might not be from this-- It might not play by our rules. 
MARISHA: I pull out Pâté. Pâté! 
MATT: "Yeah?" 
MARISHA: You're a little impish, right? You're kind of fiendish. 
MATT: "I've been told that on occasion." 
MARISHA: (laughs) So we might be encountering some of your kin, your brethren who are not as friendly and as charming as you. 
MATT: "Well, I mean, few are!" 
MARISHA: It's true! But all this to say, I need you to keep an eye out. 
MATT: "Oh yeah! I can do that!" 
MARISHA: Can you go invisible? 
MATT: "Sure!" (poofs) 
MARISHA: Thank you! 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Oh no. 
MARISHA: I need you to-- I point out the westward direction. Do you mind heading west, doing a little scout? Let me know if you see anything. Also, be on the lookout for some blue flowers! 
MATT: "Got it! Looking for brethren and blue ♪ flowers ♪ " 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Correct. 
MATT: "Yes!" (fluttering wings) 
MARISHA: We can go ahead and start walking. 
LIAM: How do we know he went the right way? 
MARISHA: Well, I told him west, the direction the coin went. 
TRAVIS: Our fate lies in the hands of an imp. 
LIAM: Mm. 
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. I'll go ahead and just-- I'll hold someone's hand. I'll hold Imogen's hand and-- 
TALIESIN: Because we can also-- Do we want to be sneaky right now or do we want to wait to be sneaky later? 
TRAVIS: Sneaky now is good! 
TALIESIN: All right, let's Pass without a Trace! 
TRAVIS: So you know. 
LAURA: All right. 
MARISHA: I'm going to come in and out of my Pâté vision, holding onto Imogen. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: A little help from heaven, a little help from hell, and a little help from Ashton. 
TRAVIS: Maybe single line it so we can hide our numbers. 
ASHLEY: Mm. 
LAURA: Mm! Smart! 
MATT: Okay. Single line. What's the marching order then? 
TRAVIS: Orym and Chet up front? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I'll go behind you. 
MATT: Orym and Chet up front. 
LAURA: I'll be behind Ashton. 
LIAM: Do we want to put a bruiser in the back? 
LAURA: With Laudna following me, I guess. 
LIAM: In case anything comes up behind? 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: I could go in the back. 
LAURA: I could also put Laudna in front of me so I can guide your shoulders as you're walking. It might be easier. 
MARISHA: Oh, that's good. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: All right. 
MATT: Does that put FCG the very back then? 
SAM: Sure! 
TALIESIN: Varied, okay. 
ASHLEY: Dust away our-- 
LAURA: I'm going to put Laudna in front of me so I can guide her as she's walking. 
TRAVIS: Dragging a blanket. 
MATT: You got it. 
SAM: Drag a rake. 
TRAVIS: A little tail. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LIAM: I'm looking for flowers and trouble. 
TRAVIS: Try to dust of tracelessness. 
MATT: All righty! You got it. 
TRAVIS: I miss you! 
MATT: So who's leading this with the survival to search the-- 
LIAM: Did we say we were sneaking? Yes, right? 
TRAVIS: We are. 
LIAM: Are you-- 
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, we passed. 
LIAM: Sprinkling? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I did the thing. 
LAURA: Are we passing? 
LIAM: So we need to do stealth as well, or--? 
MATT: Yes, it would be both stealth to go by unseen and survival to try and stay on the trail towards what your goal might be. 
TRAVIS: Stealth roll. 
MATT: Stealth first. 
MARISHA: Stealth-- Stealth and survival? 
MATT: Yeah, stealth first. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Oh! Wow! 
LIAM: 30... Okay. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: 36. 
MARISHA: 27. 
SAM: We're adding 10? 
MATT: Yeah. 
SAM: 29! 
ASHLEY: 29! 
LAURA: Wow! 17. 
MATT: All right. 
LIAM: 33. 
TALIESIN: 35. 
MATT: Ooh! 
LIAM: Nice! 
MATT: This lasts for an hour, right? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. (rolls tongue) Yes. Yes. 
TRAVIS: (rolls tongue) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: All righty. 
LIAM: Did you say survival was at advantage for some reason, or did I just imagine that? 
MATT: Not for-- Not on this. No. 
LIAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. 
LIAM: I'll do it. 
LAURA: Guidance? 
TRAVIS: Too pronounced. 
LIAM: Thanks. 
ASHLEY: Did you Guidance? 
SAM: Do you have Guidance? 
LAURA: I don't. 
SAM: Oh. 
LAURA: I was saying Guidance for anybody else doing it. 
LIAM: Nah! 
MATT: Nah! 
LIAM: Nah! (laughter) 
LIAM: Didn't happen. 
LAURA: I was reminding them before you rolled, but you rolled it. I didn't. 
LIAM: 15. 
TALIESIN: Was that with the plus 10? 
MATT: 15. 
LIAM: That's not the stealth. That's survival. 
TALIESIN: Oh, okay. That's Survival. 
LIAM: Thank you. That's why I got a 33 in stealth. 
TALIESIN: Ah, well yeah. 
MATT: Okay. You move through the sparse, dead forest, the low mists occasionally gathering. The wind picks up and pushes through the trees to occasionally cause an odd discordant whistle or a moan at times that sets your hair on the back of your neck on end. At one point, you walk by a group of trees that have been splintered, split by what looks like a lightning bolt that struck from the sky. You can see where they're divided down the center, the actual tree, front to bottom is (splitting) torn apart. In that center part where it's torn, you can see it is black and singed. You're uncertain how recent that has been, but it is one sign of the scarred landscape here as you progress. 
TRAVIS: Down the middle. 
LAURA: Remind y'all of anything? 
SAM: Oh, split open? 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: To the sun. 
MATT: Continuing to move along, eyes peeled for a number of minutes, you also see occasionally bits of tarnished metal. You approach one. You can see it's a somewhat spherical looking bit of a filthy, metallic shine that sits pushed beneath ash and root and dirt. 
MARISHA: Does it look like it's-- 
SAM: Go check it out? 
MARISHA: Is it resting on top or does it look like it's been there for a minute? 
TRAVIS: Pushed underneath, semi-submerged? 
MARISHA: Yeah, like in there? 
MATT: It looks like the elements have gathered around it for some time. 
TRAVIS: Did you say a sphere? 
MATT: It looks dome-ish. 
LAURA: Like a shield or something? 
LIAM: Could be a shield. 
MARISHA: Does it look like Orym's? 
TRAVIS: Hold on! Hold on! Let me go check. 
MATT: It does not. 
TRAVIS: Let me check! 
SAM: It's metal, though, it's not wood! 
LIAM: My shield is metal. 
TRAVIS: No, I know. I'm going to check it. It's clearly dangerous because it's metal. Can I investigate the area for, is it a pressure plate? Can I see if there's loose soil around it? Just do a little investigation around it? 
MATT: Sure, yeah. Do an investigation check. 
ASHLEY: Guidance. 
SAM: Nice! 
TALIESIN: Yay! There we go! 
MATT: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: I'm here. I'm here. 
TRAVIS: I'm here. I'm here. 18, 19, 20, 21. 
MATT: 21, okay. Looking around it, it looks like something that sits. It's about-- the dome is about this large, it looks like. The metal has a deeply tarnished silver, somewhat rusted look to what part of it is exposed. Around it, you can see ash and dirt. General weather and the environment has mostly buried whatever this is and resides there. You do not see any signs of any traps. You do not see anything else beyond that it has been here for quite some time. 
TRAVIS: In moving some of the dirt around what I can see aside, there's no edge to it. It won't lift? It's something that's like-- 
MATT: The more you begin to pull away from the sides, you can see there is a lip. You can see there looks to be a hole or some sort of an opening that begins to expose to show a hollow interior. 
LAURA: How big is it? 
TRAVIS: He said it's like this. 
MATT: The top of it's about here. 
SAM: Soccer ball? 
TRAVIS: Doesn't look like a helm, right? 
MARISHA: Helm? Yeah. 
MATT: As you begin to uncover it, it does indeed look like a helmet. 
TRAVIS: Sweet! No skull inside of the helmet? If I start-- I'm going to-- 
MARISHA: Finger the hole? 
TRAVIS: (laughs) Well. The helmet hole, yes. 
MARISHA and LAURA: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: Just because I have morbid curiosity. 
MATT: Hey, two for one because there's also a skull eye socket in there as well. 
TRAVIS: Oh, baby! 
MATT: Indeed. This looks to be the remains of an armored figure that has been reclaimed somewhat by the dead landscape. 
TRAVIS: Head up? Whoa. Ground level? 
TALIESIN: Does this look like one of yours? 
LIAM: Oh, does it look like it's been there for decades, centuries, or for days? 
MATT: Go ahead and make a, we'll say nature or investigation check. Your choice. 
LIAM: They're the same. So I will do nature. Three. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: Been there for a bit. 
SAM: Just a normal helmet. 
MARISHA: Nothing-- 
SAM: We don't need this thing. 
TALIESIN: Style is not Ashari or anything. 
TRAVIS: I'm going to-- Listen, you never know. I'm going to corkscrew it up out of the ground and hope that the helmet comes off and doesn't take the head with it. 
MATT: Just kind of like-- (creaking) The helmet comes up-- 
LAURA: Mm... Ugh. 
MATT: -- the skull drops out thereafter, 
TRAVIS: Oh! Unfortunate. Just checking underneath it. Was it just a decapitated head or was there a body also? 
MATT: You can see elements of a body that are laying down next to it. The head was up and the body was crushed and left under there. It's layers and layers of dirt and ash over time. 
TRAVIS: An ordinary helm? As far as I can tell. 
MATT: As far as you can tell. 
TRAVIS: Any inlay, any jewels or anything in there? 
MATT: It's not very fancy. It looks functional. 
TRAVIS: Put it in the bag of holding anyway and a quick scan of the area. Any arms or anything around where the-- 
SAM: We have a bag of holding? 
TRAVIS: What? 
SAM: We have a bag of holding? 
ASHLEY: The portable hole? 
MARISHA: The hole? 
TRAVIS: Don't we have a bag of holding now? 
MARISHA: No. 
LAURA: No. 
MARISHA: We just have the black hole. 
LIAM: No, we've had a hole that we use like a bag of holding that Ashton carries around. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: I'm pretty sure that Ludinus' stuff-- 
LAURA: Oh, that's bag of holding! 
TRAVIS: From the satchel. 
MATT: The satchel was a bag-- It was a satchel of holding. Yeah. 
MARISHA: (gasps) 
TALIESIN: Changes everything. 
TRAVIS: Satchel of holding. Excuse me. Yeah, I was like, am I fucking tripping? 
MARISHA: You guys also have a fucking satchel of holding? 
SAM: Oh yeah, we did-- 
MARISHA: You just had the best trip! 
SAM: We had so much fun! 
LAURA: It was for all of us. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: You got souvenirs! 
TRAVIS: We did be better than you did. It's okay. 
MARISHA: You did! 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll toss it in there. 
SAM: We play D&D better than you. 
TALIESIN: Okay. I'm making a note of that because that's interesting. 
TRAVIS: No other objects on the ground. 
ASHLEY: Does the helmet look like it seals or is it just an open helmet situation? 
MATT: It's an open face helmet. You can see that it's not quite like a Spartan design, but it looks like it has around the eyes, and then most of the mouth before it goes back over the ears, there's an opening there. 
TRAVIS: Cool. 
MATT: But it is dented. If you can see from the back of the helmet, there is a large cleave mark-- 
LAURA: Great. 
MATT: -- where an impact was taken to whoever once wore this. 
LIAM: Is it moist or is it dry as a bone? 
MATT: It's pretty dang dry. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: There is some moss and fungus that's grown on the inside, but even that's kind of dry at this point. It looks like it's just part of the helmet. 
SAM: It's an old helmet. 
LAURA: All right, let's keep walking it. 
LIAM: War never changes. 
MARISHA: Before we move on, any pings from Pâté? 
MATT: Make a perception check for Pâté. 
MARISHA: For him, right? 
TALIESIN: ("Tom's Diner") ♪ Dut dut dut duh ♪ 
TRAVIS: ("Tom's Diner") ♪ Dut dut dut duh ♪ 
LIAM: ♪ I am your king in the forest ♪ 
MARISHA: Ooh. Natural one. 
LAURA: Oh. (groaning) 
SAM: I can't fucking see. 
LIAM: Familiars. 
TRAVIS: Look at these buggers! 
LAURA: Familiar gets you every time. 
TALIESIN: Eaten by a hawk. 
MATT: (laughs) He's invisible. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, fair. Goddamn it. 
MARISHA: Check in in a minute. 
MATT: Yeah. "I'm just sort of scooting around here, you know? Getting kind of hungry." 
MARISHA: You're supposed to focus. 
MATT: "I don't even eat. What the fuck?" (laughter) 
MARISHA: Eh. 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
LAURA: Chet, are you sniffing around if anything's coming at us? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. Perpetual sniff. Oh! What now? 
LIAM: Chet's nose, Orym's eyes and ears. 
LAURA: All right, all right. 
SAM: As we walk, I'm going to pat Orym on the back and say: Buddy, we got to get you back to your mom. So I'll do whatever I can to do it, and I'll cast Death Ward on you. 
TRAVIS: Ooh. 
MARISHA: Nice. 
TRAVIS: That last a day? 
SAM: I think it's eight hours? 
MATT: Eight hours it lasts. 
TALIESIN: That'll do it. 
LAURA: That's sweet. You're at the back of the line, Orym's at the front, but I guess you just rolled right past everything. 
SAM: Patted him, made sure everyone heard me say that. Look how good a cleric I am, everyone. And then I'll go back to the back. 
TRAVIS: You learned that from Deanna. That's great. 
ASHLEY: You're throwing off our tracks now. 
SAM: Oh, sorry, sorry. 
LIAM: Thank you, friend. 
MATT: Just as you finish thanking him for this, you hear this (growls)-- 
LAURA: Oh god. 
MATT: -- from above, and you all quickly dart off to side. You've fallen into nearby shadow in sections of the tree and tree hollows that you can try and pull out of the way. 
TRAVIS: Fucking Pâté. 
MARISHA: I know. Pâté! The fuck? 
MATT: "What? There's something coming." (laughter) 
TRAVIS: That's a one. 
MATT: As you all turn off, you hear once again. (growls) (flapping) 
MARISHA: Does it look like it's scouting? 
MATT: Looks like there are two of these flying entities that are swooping as a hunting pair. 
MARISHA: And we're already in, well, we already had Pass Without a Trace, too. 
MATT: You already rolled stealth, and you gather, after a moment of still silence and watching, you don't think they've noticed you. They're just hunting. The two of you both have pretty good perception and your passive as well. You can see these entities. They are quite large. Their wingspan probably runs about 20 or so feet. 
TRAVIS: Fuck. 
MATT: It's like 15 to 20 feet. Their bodies are near jet black. As they flap and fly by, though you can't make out much of the rest of their anatomy, they leave a trail of almost black smoke that seems to vanish behind them. 
TRAVIS: What? 
SAM: Cool. 
TRAVIS: What is that shit? 
LIAM: Is it a gloomstalker? 
LAURA: Oh... 
SAM: When they're gone, can we just continue along the way? 
MATT: After a few moments of feeling safe that you can continue to pass on through, you begin your slow trek forward. You can hear their hunting cries getting softer in the distance, having not spotted you as you walk. 
LAURA: Nice! 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: For the next leg of this journey, I'd like you to roll another survival check, if you don't mind, having successfully passed-- 
ASHLEY: Guidance. 
MATT: -- one challenge. 
LIAM: That's so considerate of you, Fearne. 
LAURA: We still have Pass Without a Trace up? 
TRAVIS: I'll assist you. 
MATT: Well, for this one, I'd say that this is the first hour of traveling, so that got you beyond that sort of encounter there. 
LAURA: Got it. 
LIAM: Okay, so maybe father and son looking out here in the woods. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: You have Guidance now too, don't you? 
LIAM: I rolled a one, which is a reroll for me. 
SAM: Ooh. 
MATT: That is. 
LIAM: I do have Guidance. Much better. Much better, 18. 21. 
MATT: 21, okay. Continuing along this path, weaving through the thick elements of bleached dead trees, the hill begins to rise up a bit. At the angle of this valley, it gives you a little bit of a decent vantage point, though it does also expose you a little bit to the sky and the sight range around here. Do you want to get a better vantage point or do you want to avoid this open-- 
LAURA: Maybe we can stay in the tree line and somebody sneaky can go forward and look. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: I'm sneaky. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: You are. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah. I'll go. 
LIAM: Blend in with the landscape, too. 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
SAM: I'll throw a bunch of dirt at him. 
TRAVIS: Fuck! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Not the velvet. 
MATT: Okay, make a stealth check. 
LAURA: That's right, he's in purple velour. I was thinking he was-- 
SAM: Blends right in. 
LIAM: Well, it just got antiqued. 
TRAVIS: Get my sweat band on. Yeah! 28. 
MATT: 28, great. You get up to the top of the stone, up at the pinnacle of this one large rock that seems to be wedged out of the middle of the earth here. That the rest of the trees, there's about a 15 or so foot gap in the forest here where the rock presses outward. As you step up to the top, you can see there are signs of an old fire pit, like an old fire pit that has mostly been washed away with elements. The only way you can tell is that some of the stones that still remain in a partial circle position have that black and char elements, but a lot of them have fallen out, and the rest of the natural elements have filtered in. Make a perception check for me. 
TRAVIS: Eyes or can I use my nose? Straight roll or advantage? 
MATT: I guess which do you want to use, your eyes or your nose? 
TRAVIS: (sniffs) Definitely my nose. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: It's my strongest. Is that cocked? No. 16. 
MATT: 16. (sniffs) Now you've lived in the Flotket Alps for quite some time, and occasionally when there was an eruption of the nearby volcanic mountain of Kravaraad, there would be that heavy smell of ash and soot in the air. That smell, not as strongly, but pervasively exists in this area. But upon this rock, there is a stronger, subtle, but a stronger presence of that smell. As you smell the direction the wind is blowing and catch while it's getting to you, you glance down a little bit down the southwestern side of this rock. You can see there is a portion of this forest that is faintly smoking. Some of the trees look a little darker than the rest and you can barely see these little whiffso f smoke drifting up and dissipating into the breeze. 
TRAVIS: I head back to the group. Tell them what I saw. The smell here is more pungent. I don't know if that's because there was a fire recently or if there's thermal activity in the ground. It probably could be that. 
MARISHA: It couldn't be a campfire, like an encampment? 
SAM: That's what I was thinking. 
MARISHA: From the druids, from the Ashari? 
TRAVIS: Could be, but it seems like the ground is smoking, not a campfire. 
MARISHA: That can't be good. 
SAM: Unless they used some sort of fire magic to protect themselves and it scorches the earth or a signal fire. 
LIAM: Or a nest for whatever is up above. 
TALIESIN: That's what I'm thinking. 
MARISHA: I'm going to tell Pâté to head that way. Giving him that information to scout it out. 
MATT: "Okay, sure. Moving on." It's been an hour since you left, so invisibility would've passed. Do you want to cast it again on him? Or he can just go invisible. 
MARISHA: He can just do that. 
MATT: That's right. Yeah, no, that's his ability. "Don't worry about me." (poof) 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Takes off again. 
MARISHA: That's my greatest creation, Pâté. (laughter) 
MATT: And it will be your downfall. 
TRAVIS: (yells) (crashing) 
MATT and MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Go ahead and roll a perception check for me, if you don't mind. 
MARISHA: Come on, buddy. 
LAURA: Guidance. 
TRAVIS: Peregrine gloomstalker. 
MARISHA: That's a d4, right? 
SAM: You have to touch Pâté. 
LIAM: Yeah, this is for Pâté. 
ASHLEY: No, but isn't it through her? 
MARISHA: That's through me. 
MATT: It's through her vision through him. 
MARISHA: So do I, but do I roll for him or is it my perception? 
LIAM: Perception goes to the familiar. 
MATT: It's still the creature's perception. 
MARISHA: Even though I'm looking through him? 
MATT: Well, yeah, because if you're looking through a creature that has shitty eyes. 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
LAURA: Pâté has no eyes. 
MATT: I'll double check. 
MARISHA: Yeah, dark voids. 
MATT: I'll double check just to be sure. 
LIAM: Pretty dope. 
LAURA: Ah! 
ASHLEY: I can't see! 
LAURA: Where am I? 
TALIESIN: My life is a lie. 
ASHLEY: I forgot the accent. 
SAM: I can't see. 
TRAVIS: "I forgot the accent." 
LIAM: You should get a full back tattoo of Pâté. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: It'd be kind of sick. Yeah. It'd be pretty cool. 
LIAM: With a word bubble or something. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
LIAM: "'ello!" 
MARISHA: Pâté tattoo in general would be cute. 
SAM: "I love Gmail." (laughter) 
LIAM: Nailed it. 
MARISHA: Just wrapping around, hugging it. (laughter) 
SAM: Boy, Matt, this is a big look up. 
MATT: It's a massive fucking spell. 
SAM: Just act like you know the answer. 
MATT: This game's too complicated. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Finally broke him. 
MATT: Yeah, I just-- 
ASHLEY: Broke him! 
TRAVIS: Fucking Pâté. 
LAURA: Pâté did it. 
MATT: Look. Nine years later and puttering. No. I'll say use his perception for this. 
MARISHA: 12 then, and no Guidance? 
MATT: No Guidance. He's too far away. 
MARISHA: Okay, 12. 
MATT: Yeah, I think if a familiar could use yours, it'd be a little bit too powerful for people like Orym. So keeping a glance out there, he goes through and, "I mean, it's sort of-- Sort of a strange glance here." As you can look through his eyes and focus through, you can see there is smoke. Smoke isn't coming from the ground, it's coming from the trees. The trees are a bit darker in this space. The best you can tell, they're all giving off almost a smoke or a shadowy trail. 
SAM: Any blue? 
MARISHA: Any blue, any sign of Ashari? 
MATT: "Don't see any blue. No, don't see any Ashari. Sorry." 
SAM: He's not color blind or anything, is he? 
MARISHA: He actually might be color blind. Maybe. 
LAURA: It's totally possible. 
LIAM: Pâté is Matt's pressure release. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: Got to get one. (laughter) 
MARISHA: All right. I'll relay that information. Seems like the treetops are smoking, from what Pâté says. 
TRAVIS: Maybe we set them shits on fire. Let's ride! Stealthy in. 
LAURA: Yeah. Are we going towards that or away from it? 
SAM: Towards. 
MARISHA: Is that still heading west? 
MATT: It's southwest. 
LAURA: Why would we head towards the smoke if it's not where the flowers are? 
LIAM: I guess we don't really know what's conducive for flowers to grow around here. 
TALIESIN: I can't imagine smoke would be a positive thing for this. I could be wrong. 
LIAM: I don't understand the trees and the leaves around here either. 
LAURA: It's true. 
TRAVIS: If we can get close enough to see if they were set on fire or if they're fiendish trees. 
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: Sure. 
SAM: I mean, we're trying to find the flowers, but we're also trying to find the Ashari. They could be there. 
TRAVIS: We should be looking for tracks, too, right? What's the soil like? Is it like ash? 
MATT: The soil is like-- 
LAURA: Oh, we should've done that right-- 
MATT: -- a combination of ash 
LAURA: -- when we came in. 
MATT: -- and dried peat. 
SAM: Oh, maybe I should've asked. 
MATT: An odd dryish moss that appears to be alive, but it's almost moistureless. Parts of the land here have adapted to whatever cursed magic still reside here. While it looks like a dead landscape, indeed the trees look dead, all the plants look dead, they all look pale and blanched. You're not certain if they're dead or just different. 
TRAVIS: Maybe we should break off from the single file line where we were hiding our numbers and actually move out into a firing line. We can all check the ground as we're moving. Look for tracks, signs of scuffle, disturbed dirt. Bigger fan, bigger surface area? 
LAURA: Sure. 
LIAM: I can roll with that. 
TRAVIS: Maybe like a group thing. 
LAURA and ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: I'm going to stay at the center of that line to try to peer into the heart of the smoky region. 
MATT: Fanning out a bit like this. 
TRAVIS: I'll go on the far right hand side. 
MATT: Far right hand side, you got it. It'd be Fearne, FCG, and Ashton on the left side. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
SAM: Are we staying in t he clump or are we fanning out? 
LAURA: We're spreading out a bit. 
LIAM: Looking for a lost person in the woods. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, exactly. 
MATT: Gotcha. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: I mean, if you want to change any of this, I'm just-- 
TRAVIS: Just check the ground in front of you as you go. 
LIAM: There's a lot more room between us. 
MATT: Got it. 
LAURA: I'm still holding onto you. You're still looking through Pâté's eyes? 
MARISHA: I'm going to come in and out. He's got a passive perception of 11. 
MATT: He does. 
MARISHA: And darkvision. So it's not great, but it's enough for him to holler at me if something's there. 
TRAVIS: Maybe because if it's a woods, maybe five to 10 feet in between each of us so we're doing a proper-- 
MATT: Got it. A sweep. 
MARISHA: I'll keep him 1,500 feet in front of us. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
SAM: I'm going to give Fearnie over here an Enhanced Ability, Owl's Wisdom. 
ALL: Ooh. 
SAM: Because she can become an owl if she wanted to. 
ASHLEY: Woo-hoo! 
SAM: So advantage on perception checks. 
MATT: Yeah, all wisdom-based checks. 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: All right. Are you considering, are you moving westward? 
TRAVIS: Go. We'll go. 
LAURA: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Okay, yeah. 
LAURA: Oh, yes? 
TRAVIS: Not right towards the trees, or just westward and we'll keep an eye on the trees? Did you want to see if they're burning or if it's something else? 
LAURA: I think we should just keep an eye on the trees. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
LAURA: And keep looking for the flowers. 
TRAVIS: Killing my gamer personality! 
ASHLEY: I'm scanning the ground for tracks. 
LAURA: I know. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Unless you think there are Ashari there, like you said. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: Okay, then let's-- 
LIAM: That's a good point that Letters said. 
SAM: Huh? Which is what? 
LIAM: There could be. Some of them are my family. 
SAM: Yeah, I know! 
TRAVIS: Well, let's go check! 
ASHLEY: I'm going to search for tracks. Searching for tracks. 
MATT: All right, make an investigation check or a survival check. 
SAM: Neither are what we need. 
LAURA: Are all of us doing it? We're all looking for tracks in our line, right? Or is it just-- 
ASHLEY: Well, survival's wisdom. 
TRAVIS: A group check, or just Fearnie? 
MATT: If we're all doing a group check, okay, it will be a higher DC, but we can do it as a group check. 
LIAM: It's survival or-- 
MATT: Survival or investigation, in this case. 
LAURA: Okay. 
LIAM: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Yes! 
LIAM: Natural one. I get to reroll it! There you go. 
MARISHA: Oof! 
LIAM: Way better. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: 18. 
MATT: 18. 
TRAVIS: Investigation. 
MARISHA: Five. 
MATT: Five. 
SAM: 16! 
MATT: 16. 
ASHLEY: 11! 
MATT: 11. You did it with a-- Oh, no, this is investigation or survival. 
ASHLEY: I did survival, which is wisdom. 
MATT: Which is wisdom, so you have advantage on that one. 
ASHLEY: And I did. 
MATT: Okay. Good. I was just double checking. (laughter) 
SAM: Two success, two fail. 
ASHLEY: It was both a two. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
LAURA: 12. 
MATT: 12. Okay. 
LIAM: Wait, a flat two? 
SAM: No, no, no. 
ASHLEY: I rolled a flat two, but I actually have a plus nine for survival. 
LIAM: Okay, that's good. 
LIAM: 22. 
ASHLEY: I rolled two twos. 
MATT: 22. 
TALIESIN: 11. No, 10. Sorry. 10. 
SAM: And that's a fail. 
MATT: Okay, okay. 
LAURA: Yep. 
MATT: So walking, you said away from the trees, westward or towards the trees? 
TRAVIS: Towards the trees to check for tracks. 
MATT: Towards the trees. Okay. 
LIAM: Line toward the tree. 
TRAVIS: Sure. 
MATT: Don't pick up any tracks. No signs of any recent foot traffic. You do eventually come upon some of the darker trees and that smell that you picked up, it's the smell of burning wood and other odd scents begin to get stronger and stronger as you approach. The first dark trees you look at this close, you can see there's a faint orange glow beneath the bark. 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
MATT: Like they are perpetually burning cinders within the trees. 
LIAM: Ember trees! 
TRAVIS: Weird! 
MATT: Just this orange glow. You assume, at night, you could almost see a fiery forest emanating orange. 
TRAVIS: Is there heat coming off of the wood? 
MATT: You put your hand near it? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: There is heat coming off of it. 
SAM: I'm going to drop a quick Detect Thoughts. I don't know. 
MARISHA: See if they're living? 
LAURA: No, it's smart. 
SAM: Sure. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LIAM: There's been nothing like this until now, right? This is the first instance of it. 
MATT: Correct. 
TRAVIS: Random perpetually burning trees. 
SAM: Any thoughts in the nearby vicinity? 
MATT: None in the nearby vicinity. 60-foot range, right? 
SAM: I think it's only 30. 
MATT: Only 30? Yeah. Nothing. Don't pick up anything. 
TRAVIS: All right, let's keep moving. 
MARISHA: West. Start straight west. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: Okay. So you're-- 
LIAM: Is there anything on the ground anywhere hidden in the leaves or soil in this area? 
MATT: What are you looking for? 
LIAM: Footprints or more armor or any sign that someone passed through here. 
TRAVIS: Sign of a felled foe. 
MATT: Make a perception check for me. 
ASHLEY: Guidance! 
MATT: (chuckles) 
LIAM: Dang it! 25! 
MATT: 25's pretty good. The range of these burned trees, you do notice, it's probably about 300 or so feet across, maybe a little smaller than that, maybe a little over 200. 
LIAM: 200 feet of trees like this in the vicinity. 
MATT: Yeah. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: In the vicinity. So it's a region that seems to hold this and it's almost a radial patch. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: You don't see any-- You're not seeing tracks. You do see, further in, some of these trees appear to be broken or splintered partway up the base. It looks like there's been some sort of heavier movement or damage sustained to the center of these trees. 
LIAM: So it's like an infernal crop circle, like an entry point? 
MARISHA: Dark trees, right? Yeah. Is that what you just said? We're saying the same thing? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LIAM: Well, first I was thinking an infernal-- 
MARISHA: Tree shrine. 
LIAM: -- but if it's all these trees for 200 feet, maybe it was a (whooshes) "I'm here!" 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: I farted all over these trees. 
LAURA: That means that something very large came in. 
LIAM: Yeah. Or something really hot. 
TRAVIS: Either way, it's real bad for us. We should keep going. 
MARISHA: I agree. 
LAURA: Yeah. Let's head to the west. 
LIAM: Lady de Rolo is here. 
MATT: Okay. So you continue west. 
SAM: Uh-huh. 
TRAVIS: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: All right. 
LIAM: West. 
TRAVIS: Unless it's a nest. Oogah! 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
MATT: All right. 
MARISHA: Like you said, all those things are bad. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. None of that's good. 
LIAM: Slash fun! 
MATT: (chuckles) Continuing westward. Eventually, you begin to see the dried ashy land occasionally beginning to break up with an ash marsh. There are pockets of mud, a dark gray, in some ways a purplish mud that begins to break through and fill some of the small valleys and dips in the hilly landscape of the valley. You find your feet getting stuck occasionally and pull your boots free, loud sucking sound that echoes out a little bit from your quiet selves and makes you worried you might be noticed as you go. But you do notice that this patch that you're passing through, and you're not sure how long it's going to last, it's going to be a little harder to stay quiet and a little harder to move with expediency. 
LIAM: Crunchy leaves. 
SAM: I'm going to take a plank, put it in front of me, roll over it. 
MARISHA: (laughs) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Amazing! 
MATT: Hell yeah! I'll give you advantage on your stealth check for that. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: But are you all continuing to move stealthily? 
LIAM: Yes. 
LAURA: As much as we can. 
MATT: Group stealth check, please. 
SAM: Group stealth! 
TRAVIS: I want to go inside the-- Did you say the burnt trees were like a circle? Like a circle of burnt trees? 
MATT: It was a visible radius of burnt trees. 
TRAVIS: Something's in the middle of that fucking shit. 
SAM: Where it was-- 
LAURA: Yeah, or like-- 
TRAVIS: Could have been. 
MARISHA: Teleported in. Frigging just hit it. 
ASHLEY: Still plus 10? 
MATT: No. 
TALIESIN: No. 
ASHLEY: No. Okay. 
LIAM: Oh, not plus 10. 
MATT: Not plus 10 here. 
TALIESIN: No. That's gone. 
LAURA: No, no! It's not good! 
LIAM: Oh dear. 
MATT: Let's start over here. 
TALIESIN: That's a 24. 
SAM: Whoa! 
LIAM: 11. 
TALIESIN: I'm stealthy as fuck! 
LAURA: Six. 
MATT: Six. 
ASHLEY: Dirty 20. 
SAM: Ooh! 
MATT: All righty! 
SAM: 16! 
MATT: 16. 
MARISHA: 17. 
SAM: Hey, look at us! 
TRAVIS: 27. 
SAM: Hey! 
ASHLEY: Okay! Okay! 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: Laudna blends into the landscape. 
SAM: On the back nine! 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Yeah! (laughs) It's very monochromatic right now. 
ASHLEY: What was that? 
MATT: So you moving through the patches of marshland, back over onto solid rock and dirt. You continue to push through. You do see, a little ways above, or in front of you, what you can only assume to be remnants of a forgotten battlefield. You see weapons jutting from the ground about 12, 13 inches from what looks like dried vine and moss that have gathered across it. You can see pieces of armor and breast plates that are emerging partially from the marsh, themselves holding a heavy layer of ash that has coated the exposed side of it. Some of the nearby rocks that emerge in the landscape becomes a little more punchy and full of large, jutting sections of stone and rising and falling bit of topography. You can see large cleft marks where a two-handed blade is partially embedded in stone and then broken off where the blades sits there jagged and busted. Once more, you begin to, in your imagination, piece together interpretations of what sort of battles and deaths may have occurred here long ago. You, who have a really, really large passive perception do see atop one of these rock sections, there is a black char radius across the rock here, like an area here has been burned black. There are some black stones that emerge like obsidian crystals, like a small broken crown around this stone piece. As you're coming down into this small walkway valley, you see the faintest glimmer of blue. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
LIAM: I raise my shield up, which is not that high, but to get their attention. Then. 
MARISHA: I have Pâté up ahead. Yeah. I'm going to make Pâté do a closeup check. 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: Just to make sure. I don't want this to be a honey pot. 
MATT: Go ahead and roll perception for Pâté. 
MARISHA: Come on, boy! 
LIAM: Is he singing "Shoop" as he flies? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS, MARISHA, TALIESIN: ♪ Shoop, shoop, shoop ♪ 
MARISHA: 13. 
MATT: ♪ Here I go, here I go, here I go again ♪ ♪ Girls, what's my weakness? ♪ ♪ Bones! ♪ (laughter) 
MATT: So 13 you said? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: He scoots down overhead and looks around and says, "There's a whole lot of bones around here!" 
MARISHA: Yes. 
MATT: "There's some dried bodies and weapons and sort of like spooky." (laughter) 
MARISHA: Head towards that blue. That blue thing, the flower. 
MATT: "Okay!" 
LIAM: The blue was? 
MATT: "Where's the blue?" 
MARISHA: Oh, are you color blind? 
MATT: "What's-- Maybe?" 
MARISHA: It's the color of the sky-- Normally the color of the sky on a good day. Not when we're here. 
MATT: "I think I'm color blind!" (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Oh no! 
TRAVIS: All for grayscale! (laughter) 
LIAM: You said from Orym's view-- It's brilliant. The blue was right by a stone that was blackened and scorched? 
MATT: It's on top, growing on this top of the scorched stone with black crystals emerging, like a hand, a crown. 
LAURA: Oh. That just seems dangerous! Can any of us see it? 
MARISHA: I know! 
MATT: With you pointing it out, you can see a little bit of it, yeah. 
LAURA: How far away is it? 
MATT: It's probably about 100 or so feet from you. 
LAURA: Treas-- so fucked. 
MARISHA: The stone! 
TRAVIS: Remember, remember, we need a bag full of this stuff! 
MARISHA: Yes. 
SAM: Maybe one little bit will lead to more! 
TRAVIS: One little bit feels like a lure. 
ASHLEY: It is a bit tough. 
MARISHA: I agree! I'm afraid it's trap! It feels like a honey pot! 
TRAVIS: It feels like a little angler! 
MARISHA: Because they also said that, yes! I'm going to have Pâté look for the rock. The rock with the pointy obsidian, right? Look at me. I am pointing in its direction. 
LAURA: Does this shit grow in clusters? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: "I would say there's little white flowers." 
LAURA: Ooh! 
MARISHA: (laughs) Yes. Yes. The little white-- 
SAM: White flowers. 
MATT: "Yeah." 
MARISHA: Flowers? There are multiple? Do you see more than one? 
MATT: "Yeah." You look through his eyes and you can see there's a small bush of them. 
TRAVIS: Oh oh oh! 
MARISHA: All right. 
MATT: A cluster of maybe two, three dozen. 
TRAVIS: That sounds totally innocuous! 
MARISHA: Two, three. Land on it. 
SAM: Oh wait, you said 100 feet away? 
MATT: Falls into the bush. 
SAM: I could just imagine we were there. 
MARISHA: Imagine? 
MATT: "They're thorny!" 
TRAVIS: Oh, buddy! 
MARISHA: They're thorny? 
MATT: "Yeah!" 
MARISHA: You don't see anything? Don't hear anything? 
MATT: Roll perception for him. 
MARISHA: Ugh. 
ASHLEY: Come on! 
LAURA: This is the one. This is it! 
MARISHA: Come on, buddy. Let's do it. Let's do this one. 
TRAVIS: Huh huh, (raspberry) 
MARISHA: Oh! 
SAM: God! 
MARISHA: It's just barely cocked where it was! 
MARISHA and LAURA: (shout) 
MARISHA: Aah! Nine! 
MATT: "Coast is clear!" 
LAURA: Great. Coast is clear. 
TRAVIS: Shit. 
MARISHA: He landed on the bush. It didn't eat him. 
ASHLEY: And it didn't do anything? 
TRAVIS: I can go in. I'm super stealthy! This is my-- 
SAM: I can also Dispel Magic? 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah! 
SAM: But I don't know if it's magic. 
LAURA: Maybe you could. 
SAM: It could just be a trap 
MARISHA: Maybe you stealth in first. 
TRAVIS: I'll check it! I'll check it! 
LAURA: All right. 
TRAVIS: No problem! 
MARISHA: I'll leave Pantene nearby just in case. 
LIAM: Pantene? 
ASHLEY: Pantain? 
LAURA: Pantene! 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: I unzip the tracksuit just a little bit. 
ASHLEY: Whoa! 
MATT: (laughs) 
LIAM: Oh! 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: Okay. Make a stealth check for me. 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. 
TRAVIS: Yeah! 28! 
LAURA: Woo! 
MATT: 28. Okay. 
TRAVIS: 18 plus 10! 
MATT: You dart down, moving past, avoiding the bits of the weird purple ashy march. Marsh. I keep saying march. Moving past the rock and getting to the base of that rising stone platform. Climb up onto it and you can see-- Pâté's invisible still. So you can't see Pâté. 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
MATT: But as you approach, you hear voice go like, "Hey, you made it!" 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I did! Just keep your voice down! 
MATT: "Oh, sorry!" 
TRAVIS: Why am I doing the accent? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: (babbles) 
MARISHA: Pâté only understands a British accent. 
ASHLEY: The power of Pâté. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: "Look, I'm just infectious!" (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Oh, crikey! Okay. 
LAURA: Shit! What's my voice? 
TRAVIS: Yeah! (laughter) 
SAM: I'm old! 
TRAVIS: I know what it is! (shouts) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Before I move up on top of the rock, can I look around for tracks, any signs of movement, life, anything like that? 
MATT: Yep. Perception check. 
TRAVIS: Okay. Natural one. 
MARISHA: Oh yeah! 
LAURA: Uh-huh. 
MATT: Looks pretty solid. 
TRAVIS: Looks good. I go up on the rock, nice and slow. 
MATT: Okay. Up onto the rock. 
SAM: ♪ On the rock ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ Oh! ♪ 
TRAVIS: Do I see a bushel of blue flowers? 
MATT: You do, indeed. There's a crack in the rock and you can see where the cracks in this are, this dark, deep gray, black stemmed rosebush looking cluster has grown through in this zigzag formation. From it, these buds, these six-petaled blue flowers all emerge, and probably is about 30 or so of them that are visible from here in different states of opening. Inside, you can see across this bright, vibrant blue coloration. There are these black patterns that look like a screaming face in the center of it. It's a little off-putting. 
TRAVIS: Whoa! That's whack. 
MARISHA: That's cool. 
TRAVIS: I'll pull my sweat band down under my nose, just in case it's got some crazy pollen, and I'll take my wood chisel and I'll try and dig under the roots to try and get the whole thing, since there's only six flowers. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. You guys are all watching him do this? (laughs) 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. You're sitting there, carving the-- 
TRAVIS: (trumpets) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: You all are just watching him do this? 
MATT: Yeah. All right, cool, cool! 
TALIESIN: I'm going to try and look around a little bit. I know that if he dies, he dies. Shit happens. 
MATT: Right. Fair enough. Fair enough. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LIAM: Orym will key up to if this is a honey pot. 
TRAVIS: I will also do a Hunter's Bane check just 'cause. 
LIAM: (sighs) 
LAURA: He's 100 feet away from us? 
MATT: He would be, yeah. 
SAM: Maybe we can get up within 60 feet. 
LAURA: Yeah. Maybe let's move in a little bit closer. 
MARISHA: Within spell casting range? 
SAM: Exactly! We get to 59 feet. 
TRAVIS: Taking a drink at the watering hole and feeling vulnerable. But before I do that, I'll do it just a wisdom Hunter's Bane. 
MATT: Okay. Yeah, sure. Go ahead and make a perception check with advantage. 
SAM: If we're close enough-- 
TRAVIS: Not great. 
SAM: I'm going to cast Shield of Help, or whatever I've been saying. 
LAURA: Oh, yeah. I'm going to cast Mage Armor on myself. 
SAM: On him. 
MATT: Okay. What's the range on that? 
SAM: 60 feet. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: If the team is 60 feet away from Chet, I'll get 40 feet away from Chet. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: 15 on the Hunter's Bane. 
MATT: 15 on the Hunter's Bane. Okay. You, as you're carving away, get this little sense in the back of your neck, similar to that tallow-like, burned fat smell again catches your nose and this cold tremor tickles a wave down your spine and you hear this shifting movement. You glance down the other side of the right of where you are and you begin to see this, too. Two of these armored bodies off to the side seem to (whooshes) 
LAURA: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm. 
MATT: Lean up in the direction of where Chetney's on top of this platform and they both look at each other. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
TRAVIS: Oh no! No, no! 
MATT: You see, as they lean forward, the thin, pale bodies, as opposed to the skeletal remains you've seen, these both have leathery armor and their skin is an ashen, pale, paper-like, cracked appearance to it. These corpses are not skeletal and ancient, a little more recent. As they both lean up, they both glance back up to the top of this other stone piece where you can see there's this small shadowed figure that's perched, watching. 
LAURA: Oh no. 
MATT: Just watching Chetney. 
LIAM: Unaware of the rest of us, watching Chetney? 
MATT: You don't know. 
LIAM: As best we can tell. 
MATT: Best you can tell. 
SAM: Someone's got to warn Chetney. 
MATT: You see this shadowed figure that's hunched very low. You can barely make out these intertwined hands with very dark, purplish skin, as their shoulders are slumped inward. You can see these faint little golden orange coals for eyes against a shadowed face you can't make out and these horns that curve up above about two, two and a half feet above the head. It's just watching him. 
SAM: Uh-oh. 
LAURA: Is it just Orym that can see that, or are we all seeing it? 
MATT: Just him seeing it with his passive perception. 
LAURA: (sighs) Fuck. 
TRAVIS: (sniffs) I don't like the feeling, so I'll-- Am I about halfway through this flower bush digging up? 
SAM: ♪ Don't like the feeling I had ♪ 
MATT: You've gotten about six of them. 
TRAVIS: About six of them. Whoa, that's all there was, there was six. 
MATT: There was about 30. 
TRAVIS: There was about 30? 
MATT: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. 
MATT: In different states of being open or closed. 
TRAVIS: I got it. So I'll take the sticks. I'll put it in the bag and then I'll just-- I'll do a look since it didn't feel too great. 
MATT: Okay, you glance around and as you stand up and look back you see Orym's expression looking past you. 
TRAVIS: What? 
MATT: You turn around and at the top of the hill you see this being sitting there. As you make eyes with its small, gleaming nightmare points-- 
TRAVIS: I keep going, looking around. (whispers) I don't see anything. 
MARISHA and MATT: (laugh) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I'm walking back. (laughter) 
LIAM: Do you have the bush in tow at this point? 
MARISHA: Pretending like you didn't see it. (laughter) 
LIAM: (voiceless sputtering) 
MATT: As you begin to take a step away, you watch-- 
LIAM: Hey, Orym. 
MATT: As Chetney makes these slow steps away, you watch as the creature-- (emerging rumble) 
LAURA: (gasps) Oh no. 
MARISHA: Uh! 
MATT: It stands up tall, and as it does so, you can see this dark red skirt that drags into the ground below it. 
SAM: Skrrt. 
MARISHA: Uh-oh. 
MATT: It puts its hands up this way and plucks its fingers through the air. Those two armored bodies (joints snap to position) step up, and this low dark mist begins to fill the space above where the bog nearby is. 
MARISHA: Do we all see this? 
LAURA: Can we-- 
MATT: You all see this happening and I need you all to roll initiative. 
TRAVIS: Yes! (cheering) 
SAM: Oh boy, here we go, here we go. Guys, this combat is brought to you by WizKids. Teeth, tentacles, and terror. Pre-order mighty Obann the Punished today. Check out the full collection of CR miniatures at WizKids.io/crminis-- 
LAURA: Ooh! 
LIAM: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: Whoa! 
SAM: -- and your local game store. WizKids. 
TRAVIS: Pallid and dangerous. 
MARISHA: Oh, cool! 
SAM: Whoa, it's so monochromatic! 
MATT: That's about where you were, Orym. 
LAURA: Ruh-roh. 
MATT: Chetney, that's about where you are. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: All up in it. All up in it. 
MATT: There, stepping off to the side. FCG, you said you were staying back about 60 or so-- 
SAM: 59 feet. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: 30. You'd be a little bit further back here. 
MARISHA: I'm rolling like total shit tonight. 
MATT: Up there. 
LAURA: Same. Same. Probably fanned out a little bit, but trying to be 60 feet away as well. 
LIAM: I get advantage plus five on a roll. Shit. 
MATT: That's about here. You'd be next to-- 
MARISHA: I would be near Imogen, probably. 
MATT: Imogen. Okay. You said you were going on the side? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, yeah. 
MATT: So over here, or where do you see yourself? 
TALIESIN: Probably over on the-- Not that far. Okay, no, I would've been over in like that over there. 
SAM: But where do you see yourself in five years? 
MARISHA and LIAM: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: What's your five-year plan? 
MATT: Fearne? 
ASHLEY: Maybe there, by Orym. 
TALIESIN: A vast empire. 
MATT: By Orym over here? Okay. 
SAM: What's wrong? 
LIAM: Is that actual water, or low point in the drain? 
SAM: Mud? 
MATT: That is the weird mud. 
LIAM: Okay. Gotcha. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Let's not test that. 
MATT: This is the fun entity that was sitting up on the ridge there. 
ASHLEY: Whoa! 
TRAVIS: Ooh! (oohs and ahs) 
LIAM: Wow! 
ASHLEY: That's cool looking. 
LAURA: Whoa, that is so much scarier than I thought. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LIAM: Yeah, I was picturing-- 
MATT: The two figures, that are-- 
ASHLEY: Like the purple guy from Legend-- 
MARISHA and LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: Rise up from the sides here, (whooshing) shoot up at the edges. 
LAURA: Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god. 
MATT: Pâté was near Chetney. 
SAM: (disgusted) Oh. 
MATT: Indeed. Pâté is gliding up here. 
SAM: (like Pâté) Gmail's the best. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: All righty. So. Bringing us here, top of the round. One second. 
LIAM: Do you need our initiative? 
LAURA: I have a feeling these guys are smart. 
MATT: Just a second. 
LAURA: High intelligence on these kinds of guys. 
MATT: All right, 25 to 20. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LAURA: Uh-oh. 
TALIESIN: Eh, eh? Eh, eh? Eh, eh? 
LIAM: Oh boy. 
TRAVIS: Oh boy. Oh boy. 
MATT: 20 to 15. 
LAURA: Oh. 
SAM: 17. 
TRAVIS: Come on, guys. 
LAURA: 15. 
TRAVIS: FCG leading the fight. 
MARISHA: Wow. FCG? 
SAM: Jesus. 
MARISHA: That's not-- 
SAM: That's not good. 
MATT: Then Imogen. 
TRAVIS: Win the fight, FCG. 
SAM: I got this. 
MATT: All right, 15 to 10. 
LIAM and TRAVIS: 11. 
TALIESIN: 13. 
MATT and ASHLEY: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Orym first. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, okay, Ash, Orym. 
MARISHA: Ashton, Orym, Chet. 
LIAM: Chet. 
TALIESIN: Fuck, this is bad. 
LAURA: Uh-oh, what did you roll? 
ASHLEY: I rolled a nine. 
TALIESIN: I was not-- Yeah, okay. 
MATT: All right. Fearne, what did you get? 
ASHLEY: A nine. 
MATT: A nine, all right. And what'd you get? 
ASHLEY: Lucky old nine. 
MARISHA: Seven. 
SAM: Nine, 10. 
MATT: All right. 
LAURA: Oh my gosh. 
LIAM: Tried and true. 
ASHLEY: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: ♪ La de-da de-da ♪ 
LAURA: Oh, look at our buddy. 
TALIESIN: Oh no. 
LIAM: You want this plant, do you? 
LAURA: I need to put a little skirt on him. 
TRAVIS: ♪ La-de da-de ♪ 
SAM: Skrrt! 
TRAVIS: ♪ We like to party ♪ 
MATT: All righty. At the top of the round, the two paper-skinned figures that rise up from it at the beckoning of this horned entity on the side begin to immediately turn around in the direction of Chet and (whoosh) go into a full floppy sprint. 
TRAVIS: Whoa! 
ASHLEY: Wow! 
LAURA: Ah! I don't like it. 
MATT: This one right about there. 
MARISHA: "28 Days Later" shit. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: This one runs up and leaps down to try and fall and grab at you. 
MARISHA: Ah! 
LIAM: She's covering me. 
SAM: Your armor class right now is a 19. 
TRAVIS: Why? 
MARISHA: Oh right, from-- 
SAM: Because I cast a spell on you. 
MARISHA: -- Death Ward? 
TRAVIS: Oh, fucking amazing. 
MATT: ♪ Cast a spell on you ♪ 
TALIESIN: ♪ I put a spell on you ♪ 
MATT: There we go. All right. So one is going to try and scratch at you with its hand. That's going to be a 17 to hit. 
TRAVIS: That just misses. 
MATT: Just misses. 
TRAVIS: Well, not just. 
MATT: The one that's leaping overhead is going to try and actually grapple you. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit. Okay. 
MATT: Go ahead and make an athletics or acrobatics check. 
TRAVIS: That's just normal because I'm just me. That's a dirty 20. 12 plus eight. 
MATT: That's a natural 20. 
SAM: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: Whoa! 
LAURA: Oh no! 
MATT: So you are currently, Chetney-- 
SAM: Natural beats dirty. 
MATT: So it curls off of that side and grapples you. One of them is now holding you there, going "(undead growling)." 
SAM and TRAVIS: Ugh. 
MATT: Getting a look at them now, you can see they look-- You've encountered the undead in your past. These are recently deceased. You see half-elven, elven features in each of them, but their skin is cracked a little bit. Their eyes are sunken and you can see these pale, sickly yellow coloration over their eyeballs. They are just-- They seem feral at times, but they're also deliberate with their movements. There's moments of frenetic feral movement and times where they're calm and collected. 
TRAVIS: Mm. 
MATT: It makes you feel unsettled. But one is holding you now and hissing toward the side of your head. 
TRAVIS: (panicked) Help me. Help! 
LIAM: Are they both male in appearance? 
MATT: From what you can tell, one of them appears to male, one appears be female. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: All right, so finishing their go, that brings us to FCG, with Imogen on deck. 
SAM: Shit. I'm going to move towards Chetney. 
TRAVIS: Nuke us! (laughs) 
MATT: (laughs) All right. 
SAM: I don't have-- 
TRAVIS: (screaming) 
SAM: I'm a healer, I don't nuke. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Bring the falling fire! 
MATT: 15... 
SAM: I don't nuke. 
LAURA: Healers can nuke. 
MATT: 25, 30 gets you about there, if you want to move full 20, full 30 feet towards him. 
SAM: Oh wait, maybe I'll do this. 
SAM: Wisdom saving throw. Okay. 
TRAVIS: Everybody looking. Everybody thinking. 
SAM: That'll affect both of it. 
TRAVIS: Everybody looking, everybody thinking. 
SAM: Okay, this affects more than one creature. I'll do this then. Wait, what level? Shit, I lost it. What level spell is it? It's a fourth? It's a fourth. Fuck you. Fine, I'll do it. I don't care. I'm crazy. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Oh my god. 
SAM: Sure, yeah. 
SAM: I'll cast Compulsion on both of them. 
MATT: Compulsion. Okay. 
TALIESIN: Interesting. 
TRAVIS: Uh-huh. Uh-huh! 
SAM: Wisdom 15 save. They, yeah-- 
MATT: That's both of them, 
SAM: 15 save. 
MATT: Wisdom 15 save. All right, so that would be failure on a 14 and failure on a three. 
SAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Woo! 
SAM: (mumbling spell description) "On a failed save, the target is affected by the spell. Each affected target must use as much of his movement as possible to move in the direction that I point to." I'm going to point-- Oh shit. Does that mean he's going to be carrying Chetney with him? 
TRAVIS: We'll find out. 
SAM: Oh shit. 
MATT: Does that drop-- By the way, that drops the spell you had concentrated on previously for his armor class? 
SAM: Is Compulsion concentration? It does. Yes, it does. 
MATT: Okay, cool. So your AC is back to normal. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
SAM: So I'll have them move towards the mud. 
MATT: Towards the mud, this way? 
SAM: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay, you got it. This one darts full movement. (rhythmic footsteps) (squelching) Gets about there because it does half its movement as it gets there. Other one-- (clunking) 
SAM: Oh, he's carrying Chetney with him, I'm sorry. (laughs) Shit. 
TRAVIS: On the edge? 
MATT: But because it's pulling you, it only moves half its movement. So it's grabbed you and it's yanking you in that direction. You're trying to be free, scraping you across the ground. 
TRAVIS: My feet are running. What are you doing? 
MATT: You're right on the edge. 
TRAVIS: What are you doing?! 
MATT: Right on the edge of this mud section of the battlefield. 
TRAVIS: You're killing us! 
SAM: I thought he would drop you. 
TRAVIS: What the fuck?! 
SAM: I thought he would drop you. 
MATT: "(intense snarls)" (laughter) 
MATT: Does that finish your turn? 
SAM: That's my action. I guess I got a bonus-- 
TRAVIS: This dude don't drown. 
MARISHA and MATT: (laugh) 
SAM: I have a bonus action, but there's not much I can do with bonus actions. Let's see here. I already cast a spell this round. 
MATT: You did. 
SAM: So, no more. So that's it. 
MATT: All right. Finishing your go, that brings us to Imogen. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Nuke us. (laughs) 
SAM: I can't cast a Spiritual Weapon, right? That's another spell. 
MATT: It is, yeah. 
SAM: Okay, cool. 
MATT: You can cantrip and then Spiritual Weapon if you want to. But if you already cast a spell-- 
LAURA: This guy-- 
TRAVIS: Cast a Flame Strike. 
LAURA: Is he-- How big is he? 
MATT: He'd be considered a large creature. 
LAURA: He's a large creature? 
MATT: Yes. 
LIAM: Real tall. 
ASHLEY: He a big boy. 
TALIESIN: He a big boy. 
TRAVIS: Big boy. 
LAURA: I just don't think it's going to work. 
ASHLEY: Big boy! 
TALIESIN: Large is more than huge, right? 
LAURA: No, no. 
MATT: It's large, then huge, then gargantuan. 
LAURA: Huh? 
TRAVIS: Maybe we should talk with him. 
MARISHA: I was thinking about it. 
LAURA: Really?| 
TRAVIS: He's wearing a skirt. They're wearing a skirt. 
MARISHA: I don't think it'll work. But technically if he's a devil or something, Pâté can speak Infernal. 
TRAVIS: (unconvinced) Oh! 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Pâté can be our diplomat. 
TRAVIS: Please give us the Pâté dialogue here. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughs) I don't know if he can speak Infernal. That's the same, but-- 
LAURA: This is just like-- I just don't think it's going to work. 
ASHLEY: I was already thinking about it. 
TRAVIS: I can say the Infernal alphabet in one second. 
LIAM: Now I know I'm going to try it. 
TRAVIS: (guttural snarl) 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughs) 
LAURA: Okay. 
LIAM: Big swings. 
MATT: What you got, Imogen? 
LAURA: (moans) Okay, fuck it. I'm going to try it. 
LIAM: Embrace failure. 
LAURA: Fuck it, I'm going to try it. 
MATT: All right. 
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to hold my hands out in front of me towards the creature, this big guy. I'm going to visualize in my mind, I'm going to start to see water. This place is empty from all hydration. I want to visualize it and try to make it appear out of thin air. I'm going to try to bring water into existence all around him. I'm going to cast Watery Sphere. 
MATT: Watery Sphere. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Ooh! 
SAM: Sounds cool to me. 
MARISHA: On the big boy? 
LAURA: On the big boy. 
TALIESIN: Maybe he'll thank us for improving his skin. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Moisturize, yeah. 
LAURA: I'm wondering-- 
LIAM: His size or something. 
LAURA: Well no, it's a large creature. I can do it on a large creature. I just-- It's a strength save. 
MATT: Indeed, you can. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: It's the suit that really puts it together. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT and LAURA: (laugh) 
MARISHA: Amazing. 
LIAM: I like that Photoshop job on that hand. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughter) 
LAURA: I like that Laudna's hair is still-- 
MARISHA: Still this way. 
LAURA: -- still in place. 
LIAM: Yeah, that tracks. 
MATT: We'll say that the watery sphere that you conjured sits around here. 
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Ooh! 
MATT: We'll use that to represent it for the time being. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Fancy. 
MATT: It's a strength save, you said? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: All righty. Natural 17 plus more. 
LIAM: Aww. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: Sorry. 
LAURA: That's fine, that's fine. 
LIAM: That demon is yoked! 
LAURA: So he is not restrained, obviously, but the Watery Sphere is still there. 
MATT: Correct. 
LAURA: Okay. I'm going to roll it then towards these creatures. 
MATT: These creatures here? All right, 30 feet? 
LAURA: 30 feet. 
MATT: 30, and it-- You watch as it (magical roar) appears. The creature pushes its way out of the way with a sudden flash of shadow. Dodges it and it-- (clunky burbling) If you're familiar with Rover in "The Prisoner," it's like that, but made of water, just (water burbling). 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Oh no. Oh no! 
LAURA: So that was my action. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: What the fuck? 
LAURA: Now you are being held by this corpse creature? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, he's holding me, my feet are kicking. 
LAURA: Can I try to use my Telekinetic Shove and pull that creature five extra feet into the mud to give Chet an upper hand if he tries to get away. 
MATT: This one here? 
LAURA: Yeah. I want to pull the corpse to where his feet are stuck in the mud like the other one. 
MATT: Okay. Kind of at an angle that way? 
LAURA: Uh-huh. 
MATT: Sure. What's the save on that? 
LAURA: I think it's a 17 as well. 
MATT: 17 strength? 
TRAVIS: You're going to Artax me just like-- 
MATT: Natural 20, I'm not even joking. 
TRAVIS: Wow. 
LIAM: Mm. 
LAURA: All right. 
MATT: These guys are getting some decent rolls here. 
TALIESIN: Get it all out of the way right now. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: That's true. 
LAURA: All right, that's-- 
MARISHA: That was on a saving throw? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LAURA: That's what I can do. 
TRAVIS: Ashton, Orym, Chetney. 
MATT: As an interesting note, I think the sphere, you move the sphere as an action 30 feet. 
LAURA: Oh, okay, okay. Sorry, my bad. 
MATT: It's all good. 
LAURA: Then it stays there, yes. 
MATT: It stays there for now, but in future turns you can move it as an action, 30 feet. 
LAURA: Okay. 
LIAM: Or a bonus, I think, right? Future. 
LAURA: Let me look. 
MATT: All righty. Are you staying where you are or you want to move? 
LAURA: I am going to, I'm going to-- we're in this line right here. I guess I'm going to step back, like that. 
MATT: Cool. You got it. All righty. Finishing your go, the horned entity across the way that's still standing there after dodging this sphere that's floating there, glances over in the direction of where you are, Imogen, and over in that general vicinity, taking in the other players in the field and then (whooshing) like-- 
SAM: Uh-oh. 
MATT: (whooshing) Sinks into the ground. 
TALIESIN: I hate when they do that. 
TRAVIS: Oh no. 
TALIESIN: Fuck! 
TRAVIS: Oh boy. 
LAURA: I do not like it. 
MARISHA: I hate this. 
MATT: Then-- 
MARISHA: "I don't like it!" 
MATT: (whooshing) 
ALL: (screaming) 
MATT: Appears there in the middle of the space. 
TRAVIS: Cool. 
SAM: Maybe that's all he can do? 
MATT: Even this close, you can't make out any of the facial features. It's like the face is in perpetual shadow. You can see the burning eyes and the horns that curl upward. As it stands there, you also get a better look of its torso. The center of its chest appears to be open, ribs are exposed and curled in. There's a little opening there and on the inside, you swear you can see some sort of ethereal humanoid shape that's holding the ribs and screaming silently. 
TRAVIS and LIAM: Oh. 
LAURA: That's fucked up. 
MARISHA: That could be an Ashari. 
LIAM: That could be my sister-in-law. 
MARISHA: Could be your sister-in-law. 
LAURA: ♪ That's fucked up ♪ That's super fucked up. 
MATT: With that, yeah, it's going to-- Actually, it can move. It would've moved, probably here would've been the intent. A little further back. 
MARISHA: Ashley, you haven't gone yet. 
MATT: That'll do it. 
LAURA: Oh, I made a watery sphere and it didn't do anything and it sat there. 
SAM: What was it supposed to do? 
TRAVIS: He got a big wisdom save. 
MATT: It can entrap. 
LAURA: It can entrap it. 
SAM: But it just didn't work? 
LAURA: No, he saved. 
MATT: He made his save, unfortunately. As it stands there-- 
LAURA: I could've done it around him, and that would've-- 
MATT: It raises its hands a bit and moves them back behind it. Then, (whooshing) as it spins them around like that, all of you feel like the wind is pulled from your lungs within the area around it. Your skin goes cold and your vision begins to go to black as it creates a Soul Rend vortex around it. (whooshing) 
LAURA: Mm, mm-hmm. 
TRAVIS: What?! 
MATT: I need FCG, Orym, Fearne, and Laudna, to all make a constitution saving throw. 
TRAVIS: Let's go. 
MARISHA: All right, all right, All right, all right, all right, all right. Jesus fucking cock. 
LIAM: I don't think that's his name. 
TRAVIS: JFC. 
TALIESIN: About to be. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Matt just made the-- 
TRAVIS: Don't say the rest of it. 
TALIESIN: Matt just made the, "Oh fuck, I rolled a lot of really high dice." 
MARISHA: 10. 
MATT: 38 points of necrotic damage. 
ALL: Whoa! 
TRAVIS: How many? 
MATT: 38 points of necrotic damage. FCG. 
SAM: 14. 
MATT: 38 points of necrotic damage. 
LAURA: Uh-oh. 
MATT: Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Is this a spell another magical effect? 
MATT: It is considered a magical effect. 
ASHLEY: All right, I was just double checking. 
SAM: I think today is when I gave you a bunch of baked goods. 
ASHLEY: 22. 
MATT: 22, that would give you-- I said 38, that would be-- 
LAURA: 16? 
MATT: 16. 
TRAVIS: 19, right? 
MATT: No, no, no, you're right. 19 because it's 38. 
LAURA: Oh, sorry. 
MATT: 19 points of necrotic damage. 
SAM: Temporary hit points. 
MATT: Orym? 
LIAM: 23. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: 23. You take 19 points of necrotic damage. 
LIAM: By the way, I meant to and didn't get to. Orym would have given this one potion to Imogen and this fatty to Laudna. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: I've got two. 
LIAM: Oh, you got two already? 
SAM: She's got a bunch. 
MARISHA: I've got a bunch. 
MATT: That's going to finish its turn as a little bit of a chuckle enters the minds of the few of you in the vicinity. As the pain takes in you hear this-- "(dark laughter)" That's it. 
TRAVIS: Oh jeez, oh jeez. 
SAM: But it's just damage. It doesn't also freeze us or anything? 
MATT: Nope, just necrotic damage. 
SAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Jeez. 
LAURA: Great. 
MATT: All right. With that, it is Ashton's go, with Orym on deck. 
LIAM: Okay. 
LAURA: I vomit. 
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to go to my happy place and rage. 
MATT: Go for it. 
TALIESIN: Come on, give me something fun. I can make that work. 
MATT: ♪ Give me something good ♪ 
TALIESIN: That'll work, that'll work. Not what I'm-- God, that's-- All right, I can make that work. How far away is that motherfucker right there? 
MATT: It's about 20 feet from you. 
TALIESIN: 20 feet? 
MATT: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to... Yeah, I'm going to-- 
TRAVIS: Break out the new new? 
LAURA: New new! 
TALIESIN: I'm going to back up five feet. 
ASHLEY: New new. 
TALIESIN: Start to-- 
LAURA: Oh no, no, no. 
TALIESIN: -- match the surroundings and start to go just a little monochromatic myself as-- 
TRAVIS: Oh? 
TALIESIN: -- the rocks start to shiver around me, and I'm going to run full fucking speed at this asshole. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: Get him. 
MATT: (footsteps pounding) 
TALIESIN: I'm going to take a big flying fucking swing straight up into the head. 
MATT: You got it. Now, was this gravity you rolled? 
TALIESIN: This is gravity plus some other shit, so. 
MATT: Okay, so you watch as Ashton runs, all the nearby rocks and stone and shale all seem to gather and follow behind by about three feet. 
SAM: Cool. 
MATT: Like he's carving a wave through water, but it's all the nearby rocks and stone breaking in his wake. 
TRAVIS: Let's go! 
TALIESIN: There's a bunch of dice involved in this now. Okay. So first off, I'm hitting with my Density Well. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: So that's-- 
MATT: You're rolling to attack first on this, or--? 
TALIESIN: This is-- Oh yeah, rolling to attack. That's right. Yeah, let's go fucking reckless because you never know. This could get better and, you know. 
MATT: Fair enough. 
TALIESIN: Thank god. 17 to hit. 
MATT: 17 does hit. 
TALIESIN: Oh, thank god. All right, let's do-- Uh-huh, that could have been better. Three, four, five six plus-- 
TRAVIS: Uh-huh. 
TALIESIN: Holy shit. 18 points of bludgeoning damage. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: You need to succeed on a strength saving throw. 
MATT: Okay. Natural one. 
SAM: Ooh! 
TALIESIN: So you're prone, but it gets to be more. There's more happening. 
MATT: It's knocked prone. 
MARISHA: But wait. 
SAM: Ooh, nice! 
TALIESIN: So there's another d6 of damage which is about to happen because I'm also using the belt that I have. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: So that's another five points of damage. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Go to work. 
TALIESIN: Now you've got another strength saving throw. 
MATT: Another one? 
TALIESIN: Yep. 
MATT: Okay. Natural 20. 
TALIESIN: Okay. You're fine there. 
MATT: Hitting both sides of the spectrum. (laughs) 
TALIESIN: That's fine, doesn't matter. I'm also, just because I can, I'm going to pump a little-- I'm going to use the ring to throw 1d8 fire damage into all that. So even in the gravity, there's this black and white flame that comes off of the-- 
MATT: Okay, go and roll damage. 
TALIESIN: That's a d8, isn't it? Yep. That's eight points of fire damage on top of all that. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Nice! 
MATT: The burst of flame impacts as you knock it onto the ground and slam it. The flames lick off of it, not having quite the same singeing impact on a fiendish entity. 
TALIESIN: That's fine. 
MATT: But nevertheless-- 
TALIESIN: Learned a lesson. 
MATT: -- it falls onto its back. There you see as it hits the ground, the shadow seems to spill from its body and (energy dispersing) before it (sucking) slips back into its torso. It lays on the ground and looks up at you from there. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to hit it right in the face one more time coming right down. 
MATT: (laughs) Go for it. Still reckless, I'm sure. 
TALIESIN: Still reckless. 
MATT: Go for it. 
TALIESIN: Although I don't think it would matter at this point, would it? 
LAURA: Because he's on the ground? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 20 to hit. 
MATT: 20 hits. 
TALIESIN: All right. That's just my basic attack, isn't it? Yeah, that's all I can get here. 
SAM: Where are all the Ashari? 
TRAVIS: ♪ It's just my basic attack, isn't it ♪ 
LAURA: Are the others here? How many came in this group? Did we ask? 
LIAM: It was three or more was the way it was described. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
LIAM: It was a group. 
MATT: It was a group of volunteers. You weren't certain how many. 
TALIESIN: Is it one size larger than me or two? 
MATT: One size larger. 
TALIESIN: Okay, that's cool. So. 
MATT: (laughs) Yeah, that's cool. 
TALIESIN: That's 19 points of damage. 
MATT: All righty. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to, with that, scrape him five feet further away from me. (body slamming) Then how much movement do I have? I've used 30 feet, so I'm going to use 10 more feet to back up. 
MATT: All right, on top of there. 
TALIESIN: (heavy exhale) 
MATT: Full on bull ram and then back up. 
TALIESIN: (exhales sharply) 
MATT: All right, finish your turn? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm all done. 
ASHLEY: Cool. 
MATT: All right, Orym, you're up, with Chetney on deck. 
LIAM: I look back and forth, back and forth. I think what I'm going to do is actually bolt towards Chet. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: As I get near the edge towards that mud, I leap straight over Chetney's head and I'm going to try to slash at the thing's arm holding him-- 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: -- and do a disarming attack as I go. 
SAM: Nice. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Nice! 
SAM: Are you disarming him to drop Chetney? 
LIAM: Chetney. 
MATT: Yeah. 
SAM: Awesome. 
LIAM: So that's an 18 to hit. 
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah. 
MATT: 18 does hit. 
LIAM: Okay, and he has to make a strength save versus a 17. 
MATT: That's cocked. 
LIAM: You're cocked. 
MATT: 10, failure. 
LIAM: Failure. 
MATT: So you carve into the arm. 
SAM: Whoa! 
MATT: Oh god, and I broke off his-- 
LIAM: Oh, I did it! 
MATT: That's okay. I'll fix it. But you slice downward and "(groans)" hit its arm and cuts Chetney free. You're no longer grappled. 
SAM and TRAVIS: Yay! 
LIAM: The damage on that is two plus six, that's eight plus, is 11. 
MATT: 11? Awesome. 
LIAM: Then I'm going to follow up. I'm going to hit the ground and then spring off it into the thing with Seedling. 
MATT: Yep. 
LIAM: And do a pushing attack and try to stab and shove it into the mud. 
MATT: Into the mud? You got it. 
LIAM: That is a 29 to hit. 
MATT: 29 definitely hits. 
LIAM: 17 strength. 
MATT: 17 strength. 
SAM: He's rolling, he's fighting. 
MATT: Natural 19. 
LIAM: So he beats it, okay. So he holds his place. Seven, eight points of damage. Donezo. 
TRAVIS: Eight, so 19 total for that turn. 
LAURA: Uh-oh. 
TALIESIN: Can you reroll that or no? 
LIAM: No, it's only for 20 rolls. 
TALIESIN: Okay, yeah, gotcha. 
MATT: Yeah, sorry. 
LAURA: Sam, do you have an extra charger? 
MATT: Y'all just stand here and stare at me while I glue this together. 
LAURA: My computer is dying. 
MATT: There we go. Let that sit for a second. 
LAURA: Where is it? 
MATT: There we go. 
LAURA: You were just stepping on it. 
MATT: All right. That finish your turn, Orym? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: All right. Chetney, you're up. 
LIAM: Can I tell if this is someone I know? 
SAM: Oh, that's a good-- 
MATT: That's a good point. With a high enough perception, looking at this, this is a member of the Ashari. 
SAM: Oh no! 
MATT: This is Turan. You don't know them very well. They were an older scout figure. So yeah, there's that. 
LIAM: Understood. 
MARISHA: Oh god. 
TRAVIS: Balls! So he dropped me and he got pushed into the muck, right? But I got to stay up on the lip? 
LIAM: No. First part's true. I cut his grip. He dropped you, but I didn't-- I'm too small to have shoved him in. 
TRAVIS: Too small, okay. I'm going to drop on the ground. I'm going to say: Fuck this! I rip my chest open like Superman and I'm-- (growl) (howls) and do a hybrid transformation and go full wolf, baby! 
MATT: Hell yeah. 
MATT: Oh god. 
LIAM: That'll work. 
MATT: (laughs) There you go. 
TRAVIS: With my bonus action, I'll take my claws and I'll swipe chevrons into my upper arms-- 
SAM: Did it fit? 
TRAVIS: -- and you'll see ice, serrated ice come stretching out from my already sharp fingernails and I will take, I'll roll the dice. Six! I love it! Hurts so good. 
MATT: Hurts so good. 
TRAVIS: I will-- 
LAURA: ♪ Hurts so good ♪ 
TRAVIS: -- break into a run. 
ASHLEY: ♪ Come on, baby, make it ♪ 
TRAVIS: Towards the downed feller. 
ASHLEY and LAURA: ♪ Hurt so good ♪ 
MATT: All righty. 
TRAVIS: Then when I get there, I'll make-- 
MATT: But you're going to run to the downed fella over here? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: You got it. 
TRAVIS: I'll take three swipes against him with my-- 
MATT: Okay, first you do get attack of opportunity against you-- 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
MATT: -- from the one that's next to you. 
TRAVIS: Yes, yes, yes. 
MATT: Whoa, that's going to be a 22 to hit. 
TRAVIS: That hits. 
MATT: So it reaches out and (slicing) strikes across you with claws. I need you to make a constitution saving throw for me, please. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
SAM: Uh-oh. 
MARISHA: Wait, what does? 
SAM: The thing that was holding him, it is no longer holding him. 
LIAM: The dead Ashari. The walking Ashari. 
TRAVIS: 17. 
MATT: 17, okay. You take eight points of necrotic damage. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MATT: But you feel like it's trying to pull the life force from your body. 
TRAVIS: Oh? 
MATT: You manage to resist it. 
TRAVIS: (relieved) Oh. 
MATT: So no loss of hit point maximum on that. 
TRAVIS: I'm in my wolven form so it's only four. Okay. Or is a spell and it's not slashing damage? 
MATT: Necrotic. 
TRAVIS: Necrotic, right. 
MATT: Necrotic does not get halved. 
TRAVIS: Got it, got it, got it, got it. 
MATT: So you take the full eight. 
TRAVIS: Perfect. Great. So I'll make it over to demon. 
ASHLEY: Your shirt, not you. 
MATT: You got it. 
SAM: It's okay. 
TRAVIS: I will make my first of three. That's 20 to hit. 
MATT: 20 does hit. You have advantage on these by the way, because he's prone. 
TRAVIS: Oh. So that's still 20 to hit. Second one. 22 to hit. 
MATT: Yeah, both hit. 
TRAVIS: Third one. Ah! 27 to hit. 
SAM: Yes! 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: We've established 17 hits? 
TRAVIS: Down a point. 
MATT: Wait, so is it three attacks, you said? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, because he's got the three because of the bonus. 
MATT: But the transformation-- 
TRAVIS: Oh, he used his bonus to the-- That's right. 
MATT: Transforming. 
TRAVIS: So just two. 
MATT: Just two. 
TRAVIS: Great. (muttering math) Eight plus six. 14 for the first one. 
MATT: 14. All right, how much cold damage? 
TRAVIS: Six of that is cold. 
MATT: So 14 including the six? 
TRAVIS: 14 including the six. 
MATT: Okay. So cold is not quite having as much an impact as you'd hope as you strike. 
TRAVIS: Damn, fire or cold don't hurt as much. 
MATT: Second one. 
LAURA: Interesting. 
TRAVIS: Second one is three plus six is nine plus six is 15. Six of that is the cold as well, so it's not having as much of an effect. 
MATT: Okay, gotcha. So both strikes (slicing) carving in on the ground. As you strike with each one, you see there's a flash of blue dark arcane energy and the ice crystals streak across where the wound is hit. The shadows spill off of it and a bit of heat seems to burst forth and it just takes it. 
TRAVIS: Damn, took fire and ice. ♪ Fire and ice. ♪ Okay, cool. That's my turn. 
MATT: All righty. Chetney's down. Fearne, you're up with Laudna on deck. 
ASHLEY: Hi. All right. So I'm going to rub my fingers together and I am going to cast Aura of Life. 
MATT: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: You'll see little tendrils of green floating all around. Okay, so this life-preserving energy radiates for an aura with a 30-foot radius. It moves with me. Each non-hostile creature in the aura including myself has resistance to necrotic damage. 
LAURA: Nice! 
ASHLEY: Its hit point maximum can't be reduced. In addition, a non-hostile, living creature regains one hit point when it starts its turn in the aura with zero hit points. 
TRAVIS: 30-foot radius? 
MARISHA: Nice, nice! 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Killer. 
TALIESIN: Who's in 30 with you right now? 
MARISHA: So far-- 
ASHLEY: How close am I to Chet? 
TRAVIS: Quite a bit. 
LAURA: Oh, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Oh, you're definitely in. 
TRAVIS: I'm in, I'm in. 
ASHLEY: Are you in there? Okay. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm 15 feet from you. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MARISHA: Resistant to necrotic and we can't-- 
TALIESIN: Even I'm in there. Damn. 
TRAVIS: Can't have our maximum hit points reduced. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Every time we start our turn-- 
LAURA: If we drop to zero-- 
TRAVIS: -- we gain a hit point. 
ASHLEY: A little something. 
MARISHA: He's making a face. 
ASHLEY: Little something. 
MARISHA: Like that's a thing. 
ASHLEY: Okay? 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MARISHA: That's good to know. 
TRAVIS: I think he's impressed. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to peek around Chet. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: What? I'm sorry. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to peek around Chet at the creature on the ground. 
MATT: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Definitely that. 
ASHLEY: Just staying there, and in Infernal-- 
TRAVIS: Huh? 
ASHLEY: -- I'm going to say-- 
TRAVIS: Huh? 
ASHLEY: -- stop it. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Ooh! Hey! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Just trying it out. 
MATT: You got it. Okay. 
ASHLEY: That's my turn. 
TRAVIS: Stop it, Carl. 
ASHLEY: Stop it, Carl. (laughter) 
MATT: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Shit. 
TRAVIS: Fearne? 
MATT: This necrotic shit again, Carl. (laughter) All righty. You're going to stay put where you are? Bonus action or anything? 
ASHLEY: Bonus action, I'll bamf out Mister. 
MATT: Mister? All right. 
ASHLEY: Well, fire doesn't-- 
MATT: Whereabouts? 
ASHLEY: I will pop him in front of where FCG is. 
MATT: Okay, so here? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Fire may work for them. Who knows? 
MATT: (screeches) Gets down on the ground, flames licking around your little monkey friend. (monkey hoots) All right. 
ASHLEY: That's my turn. 
MATT: All right. That brings us to Laudna. Or does Mister do anything at the end of your turn? 
ASHLEY: Mister? No. 
MATT: Oh, it's a bonus action to do it, right? 
ASHLEY: I just, yes. 
MATT: Yeah, okay. Laudna, you're up. 
MARISHA: Can't do two bonus actions in a turn, right? 
TALIESIN: Nice turn. 
ASHLEY: Nope. 
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to cast Mirror Image on myself. 
MATT: You got it. 
MARISHA: ♪ Let me do that real quick ♪ ♪ Let me make sure I cast it ♪ 
TRAVIS: ♪ Let me ♪ 
MATT: I'll use this to signify Mirror Image. 
MARISHA: Let me make my Mirror Image. One, two, three. Okay, and then I'm going to look at him, and referencing his little rib cage, which is very literal in this instance, I'm going to go: Ooh, I have one of those, too! Especially for everyone who's basically not Orym and Ashton, you see this black void start to expand, and it looks it's starting to peel away Laudna's flesh, exposing her rib cage underneath her skin. Her rib cage starts to expand. From this deep depth of black ooze and purple ichor swirling in there, you see the front of a wolf's head-- 
ASHLEY: Ah! 
MARISHA: -- start to push its way out and it starts to claw its way out. It's undead, mangy, half-skeletal wolf. Then just leaps forth out of her chest. 
TRAVIS: What the fuck? 
ASHLEY: What? That's so cool! 
TRAVIS: Mama bear! 
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, you're fucked now! 
SAM: It's not you, it's-- You just gave birth to a wolf? 
MARISHA: Yes. 
MATT: That's your girlfriend. Hell yeah. 
LAURA and MATT: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: I'm respectfully watching! (laughter) 
MARISHA: I go: Join your kin! I sic him right next towards Chetney. Do you want him to just have initiative under me? 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Sorry. 
MATT: Sure, we'll go with that. 
TRAVIS: Holy shit, what? 
ASHLEY: That is so cool! 
LAURA: What the fuck? 
TRAVIS: You chestburst a wolf. 
SAM: Wolf. 
ASHLEY: That is rad. 
MARISHA: Chestburster wolf. 
LIAM: Inside of Marisha, there are two wolves. (laughter) 
MATT: All right. 
TALIESIN: Made of blanket. 
MATT: Do you want to stay put? You want to move? 
MARISHA: I want to move back. 
MATT: Okay. Where do you want to move? 
MARISHA: Take cover back, I guess, towards Imogen. 
MATT: Towards Imogen? Behind Imogen or with Imogen? 
MARISHA: I want to still be within 30 feet of Fearne. 
MATT: Okay. That's about as far as you can get right there. 
LAURA: Right behind me. 
MARISHA: Can I duck behind the rocks a little bit? 
MATT: Not without losing-- 
MARISHA: Okay, that's fine. 
MATT: Okay, all right. 
MARISHA: Then the wolf, who has pack tactics, and since he's next to Chetney, he's got advantage on these attack rolls. 
MATT: The creature's also prone so it's also advantage, too, so it's like-- 
MARISHA: Great. 
MATT: There isn't double advantage, but it's just super advantageous. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: (chuckles) 
LIAM: What is that? 
LAURA: He's so cute. I like him. He's a little dancing wizard. 
MARISHA: Oh, oh! 
MATT: That one's cocked. 
MARISHA: It was almost a natural 20. Oh, they're both 16s. Plus five so 21. 
MATT: That hits. Second one. 
MARISHA: Then that is 2d6. Okay. Yeah, that's great. 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
MARISHA: 14 damage. 
MATT: 14. What type of damage? 
MARISHA: Piercing. 
MATT: Piercing, okay, you got it. 
TRAVIS: (growls) 
MATT: He just, (snarls) digs in and start tearing chunks of the middle of its purplish torso free. 
TRAVIS: (grunts confusedly and growls) 
MARISHA: Yes! 
MATT: All right, does that finish your turn? 
MARISHA: Yep. 
MATT: All right. That brings us now... Oh, gotcha, okay. 
TRAVIS: We sound like a bunch of huskies up there like (yelping) 
MARISHA: (laughs) Having a whole-ass conversation. 
TRAVIS: Malamutes. (laughter) 
MATT: The bits of shadowed mist, dark mists that have apparated in some spaces around here begins to (whooshes) form together. 
TRAVIS: No. 
TRAVIS: No! 
LIAM: Help. 
MATT: You watch as, from the swampy reaches of the nearby spaces-- 
TRAVIS: (mouth fart) 
MATT: -- these other spectral, stretched humanoid figures emerge, these-- 
TRAVIS: What? 
LAURA: Spectral? 
MATT: These thin, wraith- like humanoid figures-- 
TRAVIS: No, no! 
MATT: Fill up. You can see their wild, dark hair and these long, spindly fingers. Where the fingers would be, there's on each hand, 12 long tentacles that reach out and writhe. 
TRAVIS: What?! 
TALIESIN: Don't like that. 
LIAM: No, those will go inside of us. 
MATT: These terrible grins that peel across the face like a jack-o'-lantern and they like (wheezes) and begin to stretch outward. 
TRAVIS: Thank you for that movement, you son of a B. 
MATT: Got one here. 
LIAM: I don't like those miniatures at all. Nope. 
TRAVIS: Ooh. 
SAM: Oh. 
ASHLEY: Oh, those are cool! 
LAURA: Oh god. 
MATT: And one here. 
TRAVIS: Ugh. 
LAURA: This is dire, y'all. 
LIAM: Three seems like overkill. I would do two. 
TRAVIS: I wish we were in Ludinus' vest funnel thing. 
ASHLEY: Oh yeah. 
LAURA: Oh, put it on. Put it on, Chet. 
ASHLEY: Put it on, Chet. 
MATT: It's going to shift to you. 
LIAM: Oh wow. 
MATT: This one here's going to shift to Ashton. This one is going to shift over to-- 
LIAM: Shit over here. 
MATT: Going to go for FCG. 
SAM: No, but I'm just a sweet boy. 
MATT: (chuckles) You are, aren't you? 
ASHLEY: ♪ Sweet baby boy ♪ 
MATT: All righty, so against you, Imogen, it's going to attempt to strike you. That's going to be a 12 to hit. 
LAURA: Oh! That's doesn't hit because I have my-- 
MATT: Misses you. 
LAURA: Also, it just doesn't hit. 
MATT: Yep, it just full-on misses. 
LAURA: How the fuck? 
MATT: One, you haven't even noticed it arrive. You focus after bludgeoning the demonic entity over there, back up and suddenly feel this sensation of cold tickling on your shoulder as you turn around and see this thing. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: It does have advantage because of that, which is good. That's a three and a 19, so you are going to-- That's going to be a 25 to hit. 
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to use Erratic Defense. 
TRAVIS: Erratic Defense? 
LIAM: Ah! Oh, oh, oh! 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LAURA: What is that? 
MATT: Okay. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: See what happens. 
MATT: See what happens. 
TALIESIN: All right. This is fun! Okay. All right. Take the attack. It doesn't stop. I just have resistance against-- I got space. So I have resistance against the attack. 
MATT: Okay. Got you, got you. 
TALIESIN: Then I get to do something else. 
MATT: Okay, cool. So it does still hit you. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: It's hitting Ashton? 
TALIESIN: Yep. 
MATT: It's hitting Ashton. 
LAURA: Oh, I thought it was hitting me! 
MATT: There was one that attacked you, and then it missed. Now one that's attacking him. 
LAURA: Oh, fabulous! I thought this was-- 
TRAVIS: Fabulous! Clean it up! 
LAURA: I can't see. 
LIAM: You're magic. 
MATT: You take 22 points of necrotic damage. 
TALIESIN: Reduced to 11. 
TRAVIS: Woof! 
MATT: Reduced to 11. I need you to make a constitution saving throw. 
TALIESIN: Okay. This is interesting because I also get to do something else to them. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: But yeah. ♪ Constitution saving throw ♪ Yep. Here we are. Come on! 
LIAM: ♪ Sometimes we get to be ♪ ♪ A little bit naughty. ♪ 
TALIESIN: Bleh! 10. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: 10. Doesn't matter because the aura that Fearne is extending prevents it from-- 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
MATT: -- lowering your hit points. 
MARISHA: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
SAM: Woo! 
MARISHA: Yes! 
TRAVIS: Fearne! 
LAURA: Yay! 
ASHLEY: I did something! 
TRAVIS: With the clutch spell choice! 
LAURA: That's what that look was for. He was like, oh! 
MATT: I was like, all right. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
LAURA: That was good. 
ASHLEY: (excitedly) Oh! 
TALIESIN: I feel this thing hit me, and I have this moment of weird clarity and I turn around, I grab its tentacle. 
MATT: "(growl)" 
TALIESIN: A portal opens up in front of me and I pull it straight through and it goes 30 feet in that direction. 
TRAVIS: Whoa! 
ASHLEY: What? That's cool! 
TRAVIS: What?! What?! 
MATT: Right. 
MARISHA: What?! 
LAURA: How?! 
TALIESIN: Out that way. 
ASHLEY: What am this?! 
MATT: All right. There. 
TALIESIN: That's 30 feet? 
MATT: Yep. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
TRAVIS: 15, 20, 25, 30. Yep. 
MATT: Yeah. You're like-- 
TALIESIN: Nope! 
MATT: (impact) (haunting growls) 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: (laughs) The one going after you, FCG-- 
TRAVIS: Fuck yeah. 
SAM: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: That's sick. 
MATT: That's a natural 20. 
SAM: That'll hit. 
TALIESIN: (groans) 
SAM: That'll hit. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: I'll absorb it, though. 
MARISHA: Is this at the end of the round? Or the top? 
MATT: This is. This is the end of the round. 
MARISHA: Silvery Barbs. 
MATT: All right. Silvery Barbs. 
SAM: Whoa! 
MATT: Okay. That is a 19 to hit. 
SAM: Still hits. 
MATT: Still hits. All right. 
MARISHA: Not critical. 
MATT: But not crit, which is good. Because that would've been real bad. So with that, that's 19 points necrotic damage. 
SAM: Uh huh. 
MATT: Would've been double that. 
SAM: Nice! 
MATT: Make a constitution saving throw for me, please. 
SAM: ♪ Constitution ♪ 
MARISHA: Wow. 19 points of necrotic. 
SAM: 18. 
MATT: 18. You are also within her radius so it wouldn't matter regardless. 
LAURA: Yay! 
SAM: Yay! 
MARISHA: And we're resistant to necrotic. Does that mean he takes half? 
MATT: If you're resistant-- Actually, if you're taking resistant to necrotic, then you're actually taking half of the damage you would be taking. 
TALIESIN: So I would've taken-- 
SAM: Who gave us-- 
LAURA: Resistance? Your spell gives us resistance to necrotic. 
SAM: You did? 
MATT: That's right. I forgot it was, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Resistance to necrotic. 
TALIESIN: My 22, which was reduced to 11 would be reduce to-- 
MATT: Would've been taken to five. 
TALIESIN: Five. So I get five. 
TRAVIS: Protect Fearne! 
MATT: You would've been from 18 to nine, I think? 
ASHLEY: Protect and serve! 
MARISHA: Seriously, protect Fearne. 
SAM: I think you said 19. 
MATT: I'm sorry, 19 to nine. It would've been nine. 
SAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: Amazing! 
MARISHA: Hell yeah! 
SAM: Wow! 
TALIESIN: Oh my god! 
MATT: That's-- 
TALIESIN: That's gross. 
LAURA: That's fucking titties! 
MARISHA: Clutch. 
SAM: Yeah. Yeah. 
MATT: All righty. That brings us to the top of the round now. 
ASHLEY: I protect my bitches! 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: This one here is going to turn. 
LIAM: Those guys got the highest initiative? 
MATT: They did. (laughs) 
LIAM: Dang! 
SAM: They can't! They can't, Matt. 
TRAVIS: How's that terrain? Is it slowed terrain or whatever? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: 30. 
SAM: Matthew. Matthew. 
MATT: What's up? Yes? 
SAM: They cannot! 
MATT: Oh, they can't move on their own? 
SAM: They are compelled to not move anywhere but where I tell them to. 
MATT: Oh, I misunderstood that! 
SAM: I believe. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Compulsion! 
SAM: It's a little weird because they weren't supposed to move on the last turn. They're supposed to move at the end of their first turn. 
LAURA: Oh! 
SAM: So they're supposed to move now. 
MATT: Let me see. "On a failed save..." (mumbling spell description) 
SAM: But they have to use all their movement to move where I tell them to move. They can take actions 
MATT: On its turn it can. On its next turn. Correct. 
LAURA: But he was supposed to use this turn to move. 
MATT: Correct. They wouldn't have moved until this turn. That's how it works. 
SAM: Correct. 
MATT: Right. Okay. Well, they're here now. It's fine. 
SAM: Uh-huh, yeah. 
MATT: Okay, and you designate a direction that is horizontal to you. 
SAM: Yes. Which I never quite understood. 
MARISHA: Yeah. What does that mean? 
LAURA: What does that-- You can't do it up. 
SAM: I don't know. It means-- 
MATT: Correct. Any direction-- 
SAM: This way? 
MARISHA: This way? 
SAM: Yeah, you can't tell them, "Go this way." 
MARISHA: You can't tell them. 
SAM: Sure, sure, sure. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: All right. 
SAM: So I had sent them from where they started towards the puddle. 
MATT: Towards the puddle. 
LAURA: So you can't tell them to run off a cliff if it's horizontal? 
SAM: No, they won't do that. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: Okay. So what I'll say is, to balance it out here-- 
SAM: Yes? Yes? 
MATT: So it would cast it there. He would've run that way. So they would be here now, essentially. 
SAM: Yes. 
MATT: They moved. So this is their placement. This is where they would've shifted to and been in this space. 
SAM: Yes. 
MATT: So I'll leave them here for the turn. One of them on that side is going to pull out a longbow that it has on its back. 
SAM: Oh shit! 
LIAM: Oh jeez! 
MATT: And load it from that point, is going to aim towards you, Fearne. 
ASHLEY: (groans) 
MATT: Since you're now the target of bad news for them. It's going to get-- 
LAURA: What? 
MATT: -- two longbow attacks on you. Natural one. (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Psh. Sproing! 
MATT: And a 14. 
ASHLEY: Does not hit. 
TRAVIS: Yes! 
MATT: Not a hit. 
MARISHA: (laughs) Hey! 
TALIESIN: You suck! Oh, wait. No. 
TRAVIS: Oh, good! 
MATT: The other one's going to strike you twice. 
LIAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Should've shoved them in the pudge. 
MATT: Yeah, it's going to go with its longsword twice. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: Pulls out, (slashing). Strikes again. It's going to be a 23 to hit? 
LAURA: Woof. 
LIAM: Hits. Yeah. 
MATT: Then eight. (laughs) 
LIAM: Eight. No, and I'll reaction knock the blade away and then stab back into their gut with riposte. 
MATT: You got it. 
TRAVIS: Riposte! 
SAM: Wait, you're stabbing your Ashari friends? 
LIAM: (sighs) 
LAURA: They're undead! 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Are they undead? 
MATT: You take nine points of slashing damage from the longsword. 
MARISHA: They look really dead. 
SAM: They're dead? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, they're dead. 
LAURA: They're dead. 
SAM: Maybe we can save them! 
MATT: The second strike you parry off to the side and riposte. Go ahead and roll an attack. 
LAURA: They're dead. Not anymore. 
LIAM: (groans) I want to say natural 20, but it's cocked! 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: (blows raspberry) That's a four. 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
LIAM: So 14 on that one. 
MATT: 14 just hits. 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
LIAM: Ooh! 
TRAVIS: That's good! 
LIAM: Hooray! 
TRAVIS: 14 hits! 
TALIESIN: I'm writing that down. 
LIAM: I'll push again. So a 17 strength save. DC. 
MATT: Strength save. No, that's a failure. 
LIAM: That's 12. Okay. So they're pushed 15 feet back! 
LAURA: Scooch, scooch. 
MATT: Splashes into him, into the sludge. 
LIAM: 15 points of damage. 
MATT: 15 points of damage. All righty! 
LAURA: Stay in the sludge! 
ASHLEY: Where does the guy go? 
MATT: All right, that guy's looking rough. He gets slashed back into the mud and you can see the body's sliced open, exposing the paper torn. 
LIAM: Sorry, Turan. 
MATT: "(raspy groans)" 
LIAM: RIP Turan. 
LAURA: Yeah, this was the-- 
MATT: All right, that finishes their go. FCG, you're up, with Imogen on deck. 
SAM: Question about Compulsion, this fucking spell. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: It says I can use a bonus action to compel them in a direction of my choosing. Horizontal-- 
MATT: Well, they both get to make a saving throw to try and resist it, too. 
SAM: They do. Wisdom 15. 
MATT: Yeah. So. Bottom one, the one that's closest to me fails. The one up top does succeed. 
SAM: Ah. 
MATT: So this one is no longer compelled, but this one still is. I'll mark them here with a, with a yellow loop here. 
LIAM: The power of Grass compels you! 
MATT: Compelled. All right. 
SAM: It says bonus action, I can compel them in a direction of my choosing, or whatever. 
MATT: Yeah. 
SAM: Do I have to re-bonus action that every turn, or do they keep going in the first direction that I told them and I don't need to keep-- 
MATT: I think they keep moving the direction you told them. It's a bonus action to change it. 
SAM: Got it! Well then, I will use my bonus action for other things. In that case, I'll use my bonus action. How's everyone doing? Anybody needs some dire straits healing? 
LAURA: Mm-mm. 
SAM: Cool. 
MARISHA: I'm all right. I'm all right. 
TALIESIN: All right. All right. 
TRAVIS: Hum ma ma ma. 
MARISHA: Hum-a hum-a. 
SAM: Hum-a hum-a. I'll use a bonus action then to cast Spiritual Weapon. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: Form of? 
SAM: Oh shit! 
MATT: (laughs) 
SAM: Who am I going to strike against? I guess I'll go against the puddle guy who's uncompelled now. 
TRAVIS: FRIDA's blunderbuss. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Ooh, yeah. 
MATT: What are you apparating him towards, or what are you apparating to fight him? 
SAM: He's so far away! He's an Ashari, so he probably loves nature. So I'll make it a chainsaw. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Dark! 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
SAM: But a medieval chainsaw. Just a saw! 
MATT: I'll use-- 
SAM: It's just a saw. 
TRAVIS: It's just a saw. 
MATT: It's just a handsaw. We'll use that for there, sure. 
TALIESIN: Still dark! Still dark! 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: (blade rotating) 
MATT: You got it. I'll put it here. Okay. 
SAM: That'll attack, right? 
LAURA: Yes. 
MATT: Yeah. Roll for attack. 
SAM: Natural 20! 
MARISHA: Yay! 
TRAVIS: Hey! 
MATT: All righty! 
SAM: It's-- Oh, it's only 1d8 plus three. Goddamn it! 
LAURA: You got to cast at a higher level. 
SAM: I know, but I'm so out of stuff. Oh my god! It's only like seven points of radiant damage! 
TALIESIN: Is that double with the dice doubled? 
SAM: The dice were doubled. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
SAM: I only have 5th-level spells left. I'm not going to spend my 5th-level spell on a fucking Spiritual Weapon! 
TALIESIN: Does the radiant damage seem like it does a thing? 
SAM: I need to save it for healing shit. 
MATT: It does damage to it. 
TALIESIN: Oh, well. 
MATT: Doesn't resist it. 
LAURA: You know. 
MATT: All right. (grinding) The hacksaw's like (rough sawing) through his body. He's like (confused growling). He tries to like grab at it and push it off. 
SAM: Then-- That wasn't very much damage, was it? I got one more action I can do. No one needs healing? Goddamn it! 
MARISHA: I mean, if you want to toss some my way, I won't be mad about it. 
SAM: No, we got these things, though. These are better than what I can do. 
MARISHA: All right. 
SAM: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Then save it. 
SAM: Then I'll turn around and I'll shout a command at that big ghoul-y guy next to me. 
MATT: Here's the thing. You just cast a Spiritual Weapon. 
SAM: Oh, that's a spell! 
MATT: Which is a spell. 
SAM: Then I will saw blade the guy next to me. 
MATT: Saw blade the guy next to you? Go for it. Roll for an attack. 
SAM: Okay. Oh, terrible! 
LAURA: Are they spectral, or are they-- 
SAM: Doesn't work. 
LAURA: Physical? 
TRAVIS: Corporeal. 
LIAM: They're physical. 
MATT: They are corporeal. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) With the lip purse. 
MATT: Somewhat. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: As far as you can tell. 
SAM: It was only eight. 
MATT: Eight does not hit, unfortunately. But good looking out! 
TALIESIN: Hmm. 
MATT: All right. Does that finish you turn, FCG? 
SAM: Yep! 
MATT: Imogen, you're up. 
LAURA: All right! I'm going to take my Watery Sphere-- 
SAM: Oh yeah! 
LAURA: -- and move it 30 feet, slam it into that corporeal figure. 
MATT: Here? (crashing) 
LAURA: He has to make a saving throw of 17! 
MATT: He does. 
LIAM: He cannot do 200 sit-ups. 
MATT: 17... No, that is a six! 
MARISHA: Hey! 
LAURA: Does it work? 
MATT: Yeah. 
LAURA: Does it get trapped in there? It is restrained in there, currently. 
ASHLEY: Yeah! 
TALIESIN: That fucker got teleported and suddenly was underwater. 
MATT: Yep. 
LIAM: Whoa! (gurgling) 
LAURA: Okay. That's good. That's good. 
MATT: Finishes that. Now you watch the sphere of water rolls over it and it's inside, trying to push through. 
LAURA: Okay. Second question. If somebody's on the ground, if they're prone, do they have disadvantage on dexterity saving throws? I forget. 
MATT: If they're prone, I believe so. 
LAURA: Okay, in that case, I'm going to shift this way and I'm going to Twin-- No, I'm going to Quicken. 
TALIESIN: Actually, yeah. Quicken-- At this point, I'm going to actually put-- I see what Imogen's doing, and I'm going to put the glass of my hammer in front of you and go: Take it through! It's got a prism. Try it out! 
SAM: Whoa! 
LAURA: I could hit everybody. 
TALIESIN: I don't know. I've never tried that before. 
LAURA: Oh god! Okay. 
MATT: Whatcha trying? 
LAURA: Oh god. I don't know! Well you-- Okay. That's a big thing to do before your turn, though. 
TALIESIN: Well, if you're Quickening, though, I can twin your spell on top of Quickening. 
LAURA: Okay. Yeah, I'm going to Quicken my spell. So I'm casting Lightning Bolt-- 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: -- as a bonus action. 
MATT: Okay. You can do that, definitely. 
LAURA: I'm casting that at 4th-level. 
MATT: 4th-level? What are you targeting? 
LAURA: I'm targeting the spectral creature in front of me, or the thing that's attacking me straight through to the ground to hit the guy on the ground. 
MATT: The guy there? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Then, second-- 
MATT: Okay. Well, no. 
TALIESIN: No, that is twinning. Okay. 
LAURA: That's a Quicken, just makes it happen. 
TALIESIN: Oh wait. 
MATT: I don't think she's-- Are you targeting him? What are we doing here? I guess is my question. 
TALIESIN: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Are you trying to hit the hammer or you trying to hit the guy on the ground? 
LAURA: (heavy sigh) This could branch out and lighting bolts could hit everybody. 
TALIESIN: (uncertain hum) You don't have to hit the hammer. 
LAURA: That's a big spell to hit a lot of people. 
TALIESIN: You don't have to hit the hammer. It's okay. I just have the option there. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Yeah. You're good. 
MATT: Do your thing. 
LIAM: Hit it next time. 
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to do the thing with the two of them. I just don't want to hit Fearne and-- 
MATT: No. Understood. 
TALIESIN: That's still fun. 
MATT: All right, so that'll be both the creature in front of you and the-- 
LIAM: Big devil guy or-- 
LAURA: Yes, big devil guy and the creature in front of me. 
ASHLEY: Spectral and devil guy. 
LIAM: Does that hit infernal doge? 
LAURA: I don't know if it hits infernal doge. 
MATT: To hit both of them-- 
LIAM: It's a straight line. 
MATT: Yeah, it'll be a line there so-- 
LAURA: I could-- It looks, from my angle-- 
MATT: If you move this way one square. 
LAURA: Yeah. If I move one square, I can hit them both and not hit the doge. 
MATT: Shift there. 
TALIESIN: That too. I want to see a thing! 
MATT: That will do. You move past. Yep, that'll work. All right. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: It's going to split me and the doge. 
MATT: Fails in front of you. 
TRAVIS: (lightning bolt burning) 
MATT: Then the guy on the ground. 
MARISHA: (dog wailing) 
TRAVIS: Yeah! 
TRAVIS: (curious dog arf) 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughs) 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: Natural 18 and a natural 19 on the guy on the ground. But the guy in front of you fails. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: Okay. So that will be 9d6 damage. 
MATT: All righty. 
TRAVIS: Dang! 
MARISHA: Yes! 
ASHLEY: Jeez Louise! 
TALIESIN: Ooh! Ooh! 
LAURA: Six, seven, eight. I love all of these. Nine. Okay. Okay. 11, 15, 18, 20, 22, 24 points of lightning damage to the guy in front of me. 
MATT: 24 points. 
LIAM: About average! 
LAURA: That's just about average! And half as much to-- 
MATT: (explosion) Takes the hit like-- (impact) (growls) It looks like it's pretty hurt. 
LAURA: Okay. Half as much to the guy on the ground. 
ASHLEY: Did you say 9d6? 
MATT: All right. 
LIAM: 9d6. 
LAURA: 9d6. 
LIAM: Nine times six. 
ASHLEY: Do you only have four? 
LAURA: No, I rolled. 
LIAM: Got a five and a six in there. 
LAURA: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. 
MATT: Carves across the rock. 
LAURA: Yeah, I only rolled eight! Hold on, let me get one more. 
MATT: One more? All right, go for it. 
LAURA: (hums) 
LIAM: Pick a good one. Pick the best one! 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
LAURA: Five extra points there! 
LIAM: Yeah! 
MATT: All right. 
TALIESIN: Nice! 
MATT: Makes it 29 on the top. 
LAURA: Thank you. 
MATT: You got it. All right, cool. So (blasting) it arcs across, leaving this dark burn mark on the ground where the lighting strikes and stone bits flying up in the air. So it strikes through both the devil creature on the ground, or the demon creature, I should say. It's putting its hands on the ground to get up. As it sees it coming, it darts out of the way as it carves across part of its chest. 
TRAVIS: Uh! 
MATT: Does that finish your turn? 
LAURA: Yes. 
MATT: All right. 
MATT: Well, it goes into his turn, which he then uses to slam his hands on the ground and his body falls into the shadow. 
SAM: Oh, again! 
LAURA: Fuck! 
TRAVIS: No opportunity attacks, right? 
MATT: Nope. 
LIAM: (groans) 
SAM: Oh no! 
MATT: As you're all standing there, Fearne, you see this shadow grow over you. 
LAURA: Oh no! 
ASHLEY: Where'd he go? (laughter) 
MARISHA: He's right behind me, isn't he? (laughter) 
MATT: Let's see if he gets that back. He does! 
TALIESIN: No! 
MATT: But he's not going to use it. Instead, he's going to do two claw attacks. 
SAM: (buzzes) 
MATT: Then-- Oh, no, it can do that in the same round. So it's going to attack you twice, Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: First one is going to be 27 to hit? 
ASHLEY: (laughs) Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Jesus H. 
LAURA: Oh god! 
MATT: The second one is going to be a natural 20. (groaning) 
TRAVIS: Whoa! 
LAURA: You're rolling so good tonight, Matt! 
TALIESIN: That's like the fourth! 
MATT: I've rolled poorly on a few of them, but I've rolled some pretty good rolls tonight. 
TRAVIS: Whoa! 
TALIESIN: God! 
MARISHA: I don't want to use my reaction, sorry! 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
LAURA: Oh no! 
MARISHA: (groans) 
TALIESIN: We're about to lose a very-- 
MATT: You can't use your reaction. You already Silvery Barbed once. 
MARISHA: It was last round. That's why I asked if this is the end of this round. That's why I asked. 
MATT: Oh, it hasn't come back to your turn. It isn't like at the top of the round. It's until your next turn. 
SAM: That makes sense. 
TALIESIN: Okay, yeah. So it's a reaction reset. 
ASHLEY: Wait. Wait. Where's the-- 
TALIESIN: Fuck! 
ASHLEY: Where's my-- 
MATT: That's absurd! 
TRAVIS: Barbara down. 
MATT: Barbara down. 
TALIESIN: Fuck, fuck, fuck. 
TRAVIS: Barbara Downs. (laughter) 
MATT: All right. 
TRAVIS: So good! So pure! 
TALIESIN: This could go real bad! 
MARISHA: So scared. 
MATT: So the first strike against you, Fearne. 
LIAM: Just for us. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) Okay. 
TRAVIS: (groans) 
LIAM: It's just for us. 
MATT: It's going to be first claw strike. It's going to be-- 
LIAM: (grunts) 
TRAVIS: Barbara. 
MATT: 10 points of slashing damage. 
ASHLEY: My dress! 
MATT: Plus-- 
TRAVIS: Your dress! 
TRAVIS: It's a lot of dice. 
TALIESIN: That's a lot of dice! 
SAM: First? 
LAURA: That's just one. 
ASHLEY: Then natural 20. 
TALIESIN: No, first is not done yet. 
MATT: 25 points of necrotic damage, which is reduced to half because of your aura. 
SAM: Great! 
MATT: It's only 13. 
LIAM and ASHLEY: Okay. 
SAM: So that's 23 for the first hit. 
MARISHA: That aura-- 
MATT: So 23 points of damage. Make a constitution saving throw to maintain concentration. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Do you have advantage? 
MARISHA: War Caster? 
ASHLEY: This is a magical effect, so I (stammers). Whoa. 
MATT: Yeah. Well, this is your concentration, which is trying to maintain your spell. 
ASHLEY: Oh, that's right, that's right. 
TALIESIN: Do you have War Caster, or--? 
ASHLEY: No. 
LIAM: Do you have the War Caster feat? Okay. 
SAM: But do you have War Caster? 
LIAM: Sucks to your aasimar. 
ASHLEY: I'm adding my-- 
MATT: Constitution saving throw. 
ASHLEY: (mumbles) Okay. Sorry. Just got nervous. 
MATT: It's okay. 
LIAM: Love it. 
SAM: Has to beat the-- 
ASHLEY: Oh no! 
SAM: Eight points? 
LAURA: Damage. 
MATT: Half the damage taken. 
SAM: Half the damage! 
ASHLEY: 16! 
LAURA: Yeah! 
MATT: 16 succeeds. 
TRAVIS and LIAM: (relieved groan) 
LAURA: Just barely! 
ASHLEY: Wait, wait, wait. Was that at advantage? No. 
SAM: No, you're fine. 
ASHLEY: No. Okay, sorry. You just said no. Okay. 
LIAM: Magic's still up. 
MATT: Now the crit. 
LIAM: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Oh no, no, no, no! 
MATT: Which is going to be 13 points of slashing damage. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: Just keep tabs on that. 
ASHLEY: Got it. 
MATT: Keep that in mind. 13. 
ASHLEY: Oh boy! 
TALIESIN: I'm writing it down. 
ASHLEY: Oh boy! 
MATT: And-- 
LIAM: Oh no! 
LAURA: No, this not good. This not good. 
MATT: 42 points of necrotic damage. 
SAM: I'll take half! 
TRAVIS: But she has resistance. 
MARISHA: Well, she takes half and then you would take another half. 
MATT: Reduced down to 21. 
LAURA: (gasps) Whew. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: Okay. You're taking half of that? 
ASHLEY: Well-- 
SAM: I guess so. 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: Do it! 
MATT: So you take 11, you take 10. 
ASHLEY: Oh, that's great! 
MARISHA: Then she only has to roll above a six in order to save from it. 
MATT: Well, 13. 
TRAVIS: 13 plus-- 
MATT: No, 13 plus 10. 
TALIESIN: 24. 
MATT: Or plus 11. So it'd be 24. So 12 is the DC on this. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: Come on. 
SAM: So she's-- Okay. 
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay! 
MARISHA: We got to keep that ward. 
ASHLEY: 19. 
MATT: 19. You maintain concentration. 
TALIESIN: (sigh of relief) 
TRAVIS: (nervously relieved laugh) 
ASHLEY: Woo hoo hoo hoo! 
SAM: What am I carrying now in damage? 
TRAVIS: 10. 
MATT: 10 points of damage. 10 temporary hit points you currently have. 
SAM: Okay, cool. 
MATT: Whew! 
ASHLEY: Ooh, hoo hoo. 
TRAVIS: Dude. Dude, you made it through a crit. That was clutch. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. Oh my god. 
SAM: Well, we'll see. 
TALIESIN: Amazing. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: That would have been-- 
MATT: Then since it did recharge it's going to use its Soul Rend a second time. 
LIAM: Soul Rend, not cool. 
MARISHA: Oh, come on! 
SAM: No! 
MATT: (whoosh) around. 
TRAVIS: You said it wasn't going to! 
MATT: I need FCG-- I need everybody except for Orym to make a constitution saving throw. 
LAURA: Oh no. 
LIAM: Cool. (groaning) 
ASHLEY: I make another one, right? 
LAURA: Some-- 
MATT: You do as well because you're in the radius. 
LIAM: Wow. 
LAURA: -- body! 
TALIESIN: Ugh. Oh no. 
MATT: Oh, it's not great. 
ASHLEY: Is this-- 
TRAVIS: ♪ Give me something good ♪ 
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
ASHLEY: Is this is a magical effect? 
TALIESIN: I don't like that. 
MATT: It is. 
ASHLEY: Oh, thank god. 
MARISHA: (panicked) "Is this a magical effect?" (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Are we all still in the-- Are we all still under the influence of the spell, though? 
ASHLEY: One and a nat 20. 
SAM: Still might not be great. 
TALIESIN: Fearne's spell 
MATT: Yes. She hasn't dropped it. 
SAM: Fearne just takes half damage. 
LAURA: It's a 20, though. 
MATT: All right, so. 
TRAVIS: 19. 
MATT: 19. You take 13 points of necrotic damage. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MATT: Reduced to half because of her radius. 
TRAVIS: Seven? 
MATT: So six, technically. 
TRAVIS: Six, okay. 
MARISHA: 23. 
MATT: Same thing. You take six points of necrotic damage. 
MARISHA: So six damage. 
MATT: Because you're within the radius. 
MARISHA and MATT: Yep. 
SAM: Eight. 
MATT: Eight? 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: What was it? 
SAM: You said 13. 
MATT: 13. 13 points of necrotic damage to you. 
ASHLEY: Still putting my energy out there. 
MATT: What'd you roll? 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
LAURA: She rolled a natural-- 
ASHLEY: I rolled natural 20. 
MATT: You yeah, you take seven points. Or six points. 
TRAVIS: But it was 13. If you failed, it's 26, right? 
SAM: Are you okay? Can you take seven points of damage? 
MATT: Correct, but he still has half because he's in her radius. 
ASHLEY: I can take seven points. 
SAM: Okay, you're still up. 
ASHLEY: I'm struggling. I'm in single digits. 
MARISHA: Six points. 
SAM: Six points. 
MARISHA: You're in single digits?! 
ASHLEY: Six points? 
SAM: Yeah, she's-- 
MATT: Yeah. 
SAM: -- real down. 
MATT: You need to make another constitution saving throw. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
MATT: Imogen? 
LAURA: I rolled 15. 
MATT: 15. Okay, you take-- 
TRAVIS: You just have to beat a three. 
SAM: A three. You just have to beat a three. 
MATT: -- 20... 
ASHLEY: 17. 
SAM: Okay, 17. 
MATT: You said it was 20? 
TRAVIS: 23. 
MATT: 23. 23 points of necrotic damage. 
TRAVIS: Sorry, 26. 
LAURA: Divided in half because I'm resistant right now. 
TRAVIS: Half is 13. 
SAM: 13. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, so 26 total. 
MATT: Correct. Yeah. So 13 is what it would be. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: All right. Ashton. 
TALIESIN: Oh. I rolled 13, so I take it I take 13. 
MATT: You do. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, all right. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: (panting) Woof! 
MATT: What was your constitution saving throw? 
ASHLEY: 19. 
MATT: 19, yeah. You're maintaining it. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: Whoa-ho! 
TRAVIS: Wow, that was a barrage of shit. 
TALIESIN: Some may need healing. 
ASHLEY: Woo! 
MARISHA: Yeah, it was. 
SAM: Who has this? 
TRAVIS: That was crazy. Laudna does. 
SAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: That's me. 
MATT: Okay. That is going to finish its turn. 
TRAVIS: Unless you want to hand that shit off. 
MATT: Ashton, you're up, with Orym on deck. 
TRAVIS: Fuck! 
ASHLEY: No response to the Infernal, I imagine? 
MATT: No, but I will say as it appears behind you and after the two strikes and the blast outward you hear in your mind, "(speaks Abyssal)" in Abyssal. 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
MATT: Do you speak Abyssal? 
LAURA: Oh. 
ASHLEY: No. 
MATT: You have no idea what it's saying. 
TRAVIS: He said, "How you doing?" 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Okay, trying to make a good decision. All right. I'm going to walk gently up to this-- 
MATT: Walk gently up to it. 
TALIESIN: -- fucker right there. No, not him, the smaller one. 
MATT: Right there? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, this guy. So I have a nice little-- Since he's involved, I'm going to take a nice easy swing with advantage. 
MATT: Go for it. Okay. 
TALIESIN: That's a 17? 
MATT: 17 hits. 
TALIESIN: All right, let's do something. That's 19 points of damage. 
LAURA: This is not a question mark. 
MATT: 19 points of damage. All righty. "(monstrous wince)" 
TALIESIN: Really? I'm going to take another swing. 
MATT: All right. 
TALIESIN: That's 20... 
MATT: That definitely hits. Roll damage a second time. 
TALIESIN: All right. Oh, that's better. It's nine... I'm sorry, I'm doing weird-- It's 21 points of damage. 
MATT: Great. Hit it a second time, it's like-- "(monstrous wince)" 
ASHLEY: Nice! You see its shadow is dripping off of it and starting to fade a bit. It's looking really hurt. 
TALIESIN: I also knocked it-- I basically knocked it around towards me to get it a little further. Yeah, out of contact with Imogen, or at least-- 
MATT: You're moving it just five feet? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, five feet in the-- 
MATT: Five feet this way means it's still in contact with her, but it's a lot further away. 
TALIESIN: Yep. Yeah. 
MATT: Okay, cool. 
TALIESIN: Then I'm going to take a couple steps around it so that I can be on-- Yeah, I want to be in-between. Five more feet back. 
MATT: Here, you mean? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, right there. 
MATT: Here? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. You'll be moving into melee range if you go that way. 
TALIESIN: Oh no, yeah, I don't want that. 
MATT: Staying there? I want to stay in the melee range, but yeah. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: That's good. 
MATT: Finishes your go? 
TALIESIN: That finishes my go. 
MATT: All right. Orym, you're up, with Chetney on deck. 
LIAM: Okay, I was going to deal with these dead friends, but I see Fearne in trouble, so instead I'm going to just switch it up entirely and run and do a little skip over Mister. Fall into a tumble, roll under Fearne's legs, and then shove my shield up into the a-hole's face and say: You're a little close, Fearne! I push her back-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
LIAM: -- so she's not up against. So I'll take her place and put her there. 
MATT: Which is just 30 feet, so that gets you right up there in front of it, yeah. 
LIAM: Right, and she's not touching any other enemy. Find a safe spot! I will take the AC because I'm in its face. 
MATT: You got it. 
LIAM: So that is-- My AC goes up seven. Cool. And I will attack. 
MATT: Go for it. 
LIAM: All right. First is an 18 plus 10 is 28. 
MATT: That definitely hits. 
LIAM: So that is eight points of damage. Second attack is a 26 to hit. 
MATT: That hits. 
LIAM: That is nine points of damage. Action surge. 
MATT: Ooh. 
LIAM: I just slash away. That one misses. That's a three plus-- 13 to hit. 
MATT: 13 misses. 
LIAM: Last one is 23 to hit. 
MATT: That hits. 
LAURA: Nice. 
LIAM: Let's make this a goading attack. 
MATT: All righty. 
LIAM: Five plus six is 11. Plus seven is 18 points of damage. It has to make-- It will probably win, but a 17 wisdom. 
MATT: It rolled a 15. 
MARISHA: (gasps excitedly) 
LIAM: Okay. Attacks against anyone but me are at disadvantage. 
MARISHA: Hell yes. 
MATT: How much damage did you do? 
LIAM: Hmm? 
MATT: Last attack was how much damage? 
LIAM: 17. 
MATT: 17, got it. 
ASHLEY: ♪ Teamwork ♪ 
MATT: (laughs) 
LIAM: So it'll be slash, slash, miss and then I will get frustrated and leap up and cut under, cut along the belly button area, underneath whatever the-- 
LAURA: Opening? 
LIAM: -- opening is. 
MATT: Okay. So you carve through. You see part of the ribcage opens up on the side and you see the spirit hand of whatever is inside trying to reach out towards you like-- (raspy moan) This horrible sucking sound. 
TRAVIS: Do you recognize the-- 
LIAM: Yeah, is it someone I know? 
MATT: It's hard to see the features necessarily. Make a perception check. 
LAURA: (groans) 
LIAM: It's a 30. 
MATT: Fira, which is one of the younger recruits of the exterior guardian blades. Kind of young when you left last. 
LIAM: Young like me? 
MATT: Yeah, early twenties. 
SAM: Fira. 
LIAM: Okay. 
SAM: As long as it's not Scuffy. 
LAURA: But it's not Fy'ra, Anjali's Fy'ra? 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: No, no, no. 
TRAVIS: It's not burning you. 
MATT: Spelled differently. 
LIAM: Baernie, you're thinking of. 
SAM: Jameson. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: All right. So is that your turn? 
LIAM: That's it for me. Yeah. 
MATT: All right. Chetney, you're up. 
TRAVIS: Trying something stupid, because fuck it. I'm going to turn and I am going to run like I'm running right at Orym's back and at the last second I'm going to leap up to the right and I'm going to jump off of the tree trunk-- 
MARISHA: Yes. 
TRAVIS: -- over Orym and try and grab this dude, and I'm going to try and grapple him. Just full bear hug claws in. dead in his chest. 
MATT: You got it. Okay, okay. Roll an athletics check. You have an advantage because you are-- 
TRAVIS: 16. 
MATT: 16? No, even with a high enough strength it's still only 11 on its point. So you leap up and you have effectively grappled this entity. 
SAM: Nice! 
TRAVIS: I'm fully in its face, arms wrapped around his, locking him down and just (roars) spittle flying all over his demonic-- 
MATT: The grapple is one attack to grapple. You have your other, if you want to. 
TRAVIS: Do I have another attack action? 
MATT: Well, here's the thing. To grapple somebody is one attack. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: So you attack twice on your actions. 
TRAVIS: I have a second attack. 
MATT: So your first attack is a grapple, you still have your second attack if you want to damage it. Your bonus still, if you want to. 
LAURA: Bite him while you're grappling. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, sure. 
MATT: If you want to. 
TRAVIS: I'll try it. Yeah, I'll try just another attack. 
LIAM: Werewolf versus demon. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
LAURA: Is this a demon or a devil? I can never remember. 
TRAVIS: Just a regular attack, no advantage, though, right? 
MATT: Correct. 
MARISHA: Demons are abyssal. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Devils are-- 
MATT: Correct. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: You can make a religion check during this or afterward if you'd like to figure out. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: 26. 12 points, six of those are ice. 
MATT: Got you. Got it, so you're on top of it, you jam your icy claws into it. As you strike through, it's resisting the ice as it carves and breaks. You have a bonus action still if you want to do something. 
SAM: Oh wow. 
TRAVIS: Oh really? Then he's going to stay restrained this whole time? 
MATT: Well, he's grappled, yes. 
TRAVIS: Oh, grappled, that's what I mean, yeah. Great. Bonus action. (waggles tongue in thought) I mean, I could hit him again. 
SAM: Do it! 
MATT: Yeah, if you want to do your bonus action. 
TRAVIS: (excited babbling) 
MATT: Do it, do it! 
LIAM: Yeah. 
SAM: Oh my god. 
TRAVIS: That's a 26 again. 
MATT: Yeah, go for it. 
TRAVIS: Oh, one. Plus-- (whispered counting) Wait. Yeah, seven plus six points of ice. Seven points of slashing. 
MATT: Got you. Okay. So you're carving and carving into it as you're holding onto it. You can see now as you're cutting into its body, especially at this proximity, its skin feels very hot to the touch. With each carve through, parts of the torso break away and you can see the ribs falling away. Now that you're this close up, the blackened shape, the shadow that is its face, you look to peer out any sort of details as you're glancing upwards, and you can barely make out what looks like a skeletal nose and a set of teeth that hang back in the shadow, unnaturally resisting all light. The abyssal tongue is lashing and trying to wipe the teeth, but its eyes which have this confidence, have this intense hatred burning in them now. 
LAURA: (wild laughter) Get dirty. 
MATT: All right. That finish your go? 
TRAVIS: Yes, it does. 
MATT: All right. Fearne, you're up, with Laudna on deck. 
ASHLEY: Oh! Shit. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Sorry, I didn't mean to scream. 
LAURA: What's the-- 
ASHLEY: Where'd it go? 
SAM: What's the way we kill him? 
LAURA: Yeah. How do we? 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LAURA: What's the circle on him for, is that from Chet? 
MATT: The circle is him grappled. 
SAM: He's grappled. 
LAURA: Okay, got it. 
MATT: His movement speed is currently zero. 
LAURA: Okay. Does that give him disadvantage on dexterity? 
MATT: No. That's restrained. 
LIAM: He can still do his magic. 
SAM: He can still do his thing. 
LAURA: Got it. 
MATT: Restrained or prone. 
ASHLEY: All right. Wait, where did you say that little creature was coming out from? The skeletal-- 
SAM: His chest? 
MATT: In his chest. 
ASHLEY: In the guy's-- Okay. I'm going to turn around, and I am going to cast Daylight into that. 
SAM: Ooh. 
MATT: Oh, casting Daylight into its chest? 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LAURA: Whoa! 
MATT: Okay, is that a concentration? 
LAURA: So smart. 
ASHLEY: It is not a concentration. 
MATT: That's true, just double checking. Okay. 
TALIESIN: Mm! 
MATT: So with that-- 
TRAVIS: Ashley Johnson! 
LAURA: Yeah, bringing it! 
MARISHA: Yeah, I know! 
MATT: A bright blast of-- 
LIAM: Work that battlefield. 
MARISHA: Fuck yes. 
MATT: -- extremely eye-catching daylight radiates from the center of the chest of this entity. As it hits, you suddenly begin to see where all the shadow is on this creature. Most of it's just vacant space, and you now see it's a skeletal figure that uses the shadow to fill out most of its form. As it hits, its eyes go wide and it shrieks, and it looks like it's trying to scratch the sunlight out of its chest and it's unable to do so. All the other entities in the radius-- What's the radius on the Daylight spell? 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
LAURA: (gasps) 
ASHLEY: 60 feet. 
TALIESIN: Ooh! 
MATT: 60 feet. This whole area is now a bright beacon and you see all the other spectral shadow entities "(raspy shriek)" shrink from the sight of it and crawling on the ground trying to pull their way away from it. 
TRAVIS: We're okay. 
MATT: The undead over here-- 
LIAM: (poof) 
MARISHA: Come on, make them poof. Make them poof! 
MATT: No, but they're also-- "(groans)" They're wincing from the light. You get the sense they do not enjoy its presence. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit. 
LAURA: Yes! 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MARISHA: Hell yes. 
MATT: You want to stay put or do you want to move? 
LAURA: How do you feel with the light, Laudna? 
ASHLEY: I'm going to stay put. 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: Makes my eyes a little weary, but I'm all right. 
ASHLEY: Mister, for a bonus action. 
MATT: Yep. 
MARISHA: I see circles. 
ASHLEY: Is going to shoot some flames at the nearest-- 
LIAM: That's the Lasik. 
ASHLEY: -- at the one behind me, the spectral. 
MATT: Over there? 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Behind me. 
MATT: Okay. He's like, "(hoots)," reaches in, grabs a flaming turd. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, get your flaming turds out. 
MATT: "(monkey howl)" (bang) 
ASHLEY: Lock and load. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah. What emotion. 
LIAM: He went to that so fast. 
TALIESIN: Get your turd on. 
TRAVIS: What emotion. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: I'm so proud. 
TRAVIS: Lock and load that flaming turd. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Solid boar shot. 
ASHLEY: I haven't done this in a minute. 
LIAM: A-level acting ability went into that. 
ASHLEY: 18? 
MATT: 18 hits. 
ASHLEY: Okay, great. 
LAURA: Yes! 
MATT: This is everything that Percy had hoped for. 
TALIESIN: I know, this is his legacy. 
MATT: Indeed. 
LIAM: He just had a bit of indigestion somewhere, he doesn't know why. 
TALIESIN: (groans) 
ASHLEY: Why did I think it was more than that? 
TALIESIN: Flaming poop of his own. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: Flaming Seed. Oh yeah, I guess it is only-- Okay. Seven points of damage. 
MATT: Seven points of damage. 
MATT: All righty. 
LAURA: It would be amazing if Mister killed him. 
MATT: "(monkey hoots)" 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: That one actually hasn't been damaged yet, so that's the first time it's been hit. 
ASHLEY: Oh great, okay. 
MATT: But it's like-- (smoldering) "(groans)" All right, does that finish your turn, Fearne? 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LIAM: Turn Fearne. 
MATT: All righty. That brings us to Laudna. 
MARISHA: All righty. I am going to Form of Dread, give myself some hit points here. 
MATT: Do it. 
MARISHA: (wincing groans) That's what I do. (laughter) (silly wincing groans) 
MARISHA: Still tree shit. It's a little ashy though to match the landscape. 
MATT: Hell yeah. 
MARISHA: Then, I'm going to send Pâté, I think he can make it with his fly speed, into the watery sphere with the guy. He's going to go swimming. 
MATT: (gurgles) 
MARISHA: Then I'm going-- 
MATT: (muffled underwater) "Hello!" 
MARISHA: I'm going to do-- (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Wow. 
MARISHA: -- do something a little weird here. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: Not the first time. 
MARISHA: Being a little inventive. I'm going to twin a Shocking Grasp. 
LAURA: This is what I did it for! 
MARISHA: Really? 
LAURA: Yes! 
MARISHA: I want to twin a Shocking Grasp, one with me grabbing the guy right in front of me, and one through Pâté. 
MATT: Sure, yeah, you can do that. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
MARISHA: Sick. 
LIAM: Girls in sync! 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
TRAVIS: These bitches be witches. 
MARISHA: Do I get advantage because it's in water? 
ASHLEY: These bitches be witches. 
MATT: Yeah, he's in water. 
ASHLEY: Yes, yes. 
MATT: Yep. 
MARISHA: Okay. Okay. 
MATT: Hell yeah. (laughs) 
LIAM: That worked eloquently. 
ASHLEY: Oh, that's so nice to know. 
MARISHA: Okay. Natural 20. (shouting) 
MATT: Dang! 
TALIESIN: Fuck him up! 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: Is it for both of them? Does that count for both of them? 
MATT: You roll for each independently. 
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay. 
LIAM: Just roll another one. 
MARISHA: So the first one was natural 20. 
ASHLEY: Roll another one right now. 
MARISHA: Are they both advantage or just the one? 
MATT: Just the one that's in the water. 
MARISHA: Then I'll just roll another. I'm going to pull some Emily Axford shit. Two nat 20s. No, definitely not. 17. 
MATT: 17 still hits, though. 
MARISHA: Okay, great. So from the natty 20. Shocking Grasp, it's 2d8. (thinking noises) 
LIAM: Ba da ba da. 
MATT: (muffled underwater) "Special delivery!" 
LIAM: ♪ If you ♪ 
MARISHA: That's okay. 
SAM: Double the dice. 
MARISHA: Four, five, six, seven. 14 damage. 
TRAVIS: ♪ Want to call me "baby" ♪ 
MATT: 14 damage, okay. 
MARISHA: And it can't react. Then for the other one-- 
MATT: Well, heh. How do you want to do this for that one? 
MARISHA: The one in the Watery Sphere? 
MATT: The one in  the Watery Sphere had been damaged previously. 
MARISHA: Oh! I mean, keep your blow dryer away from your tub, kids. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. (laughter) 
MARISHA: It's real bad. (laughter) 
MARISHA: PSAs. 
SAM: You know all the children blow drying their hair. 
MATT: Never had a PSA how do you want to do this before. That's a unique one. 
LIAM: I can feel the gothic horror. 
LAURA: ♪ The more you know ♪ 
MATT and TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: You watch as the Watery Sphere suddenly lights up, and you see this burst of electrical energy from inside. You see the outer shape of a winged shadow on the inside as the other larger shadow scatters, and the water gets a little murkier. 
MARISHA: Pâté gets a little jettisoned and he flops. 
MATT: "(grunts)" (laughter) 
MARISHA: Then for the one in front of me. Okay, seven damage. 
LIAM: (as Pâté) G.I. Joe. 
MATT: Seven damage. You got it. Killed that one also. 
MARISHA: Ooh, really? 
ASHLEY and LAURA: Yes! 
MATT: Shocked and destroyed. 
ASHLEY: Let's go, Laudna. 
MATT: Both of those had taken some heavy Ashton rounds previously. 
ASHLEY: ("The Next Episode") ♪ La dee da dee da ♪ 
MARISHA: Great. 
TALIESIN: Well, that's-- 
MATT: Well, that was Lightning Bolt, actually. 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: ("Be My Lover") ♪ La da-da dee da-da da-da ♪ 
MATT: Yeah! 
TRAVIS: ♪ La da-da dee da-da da-dum ♪ 
TALIESIN: Beat the fuck out of that thing. 
TRAVIS: ♪ La da dee da da ♪ 
MARISHA: I guess that's my turn. 
MATT: All righty. 
TRAVIS: ♪ Ah-ha yeah hey ♪ 
MATT: And your hound? 
TRAVIS: ♪ Wanna be my love ♪ 
MARISHA: Huh? 
MATT: Your hound? 
MARISHA: Ooh, and my hound, my boy! He runs to the guy. 
ASHLEY: You're my boy, Blue! 
MARISHA: (hound running) 
TRAVIS: (shouts) 
LIAM: I have abandoned my son! 
TRAVIS: I've abandoned my boy! 
MARISHA: As long as he's within five-- I want to keep him within five feet of Chet, if I can, which I think he looks like it. 
SAM: Yeah, seems like it. 
MARISHA: Then he gets advantage. 
MATT: Yep. 
LAURA: Look at the cute little Pâté mini. 
SAM: Because of wolf on wolf? 
TRAVIS: Wolf on wolf. 
MARISHA: He has pack tactics. 
MATT: It was a fan gift. 
LAURA: It's so cute! 
MATT: We haven't gotten ours yet. 
MARISHA: 17? 
TRAVIS: Pack Tactics. 
MATT: 17? 
TRAVIS: Hosted by Tracy Morgan. 
MATT: 17 hits. 
MARISHA: 17 just hits. 
TRAVIS: Scare Tactics. 
SAM: Oh. Is that what that is? 
TRAVIS: That's the show. 
SAM: I'm a wolf! 
MARISHA: 11 damage to him. 
MATT: 11 damage. 
MARISHA: Piercing damage. 
MATT: (groans) 
MARISHA: He technically has to make a strength saving throw or he gets knocked prone. 
MATT: That is a 15. What's the DC? 
MARISHA: 13. 
MATT: 13, yeah, so he maintains his stance. 
SAM: The picture of your wolf has blood all over his mouth? 
TRAVIS: You bet your ass it does. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, he's ready to go. 
MARISHA: My wolf looks way more fucked up than that. 
SAM: Of course. 
MARISHA: And spectral, and he was mangy and drippy. 
TRAVIS: We're only ever ready to ball. 
MARISHA: Yeah, skin falling off of it. 
ASHLEY: (excited groan) 
MARISHA: Exposed muscle sinew. 
ASHLEY: Like-- 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Cool! 
MARISHA: Yeah. It's-- I have a reference for this, I wanted it to look like the wolves in season one of Legend of Vox Machina in episode five. 
MATT: Legit. 
MARISHA: Because it's Delilah's dogs. 
MATT: The remaining specter creature, the blackened ash specter leans forward towards you, Fearne. (growls) His tendrils reaching out trying to wrap around you. 
SAM: Oh god. You're on death's door. 
MATT: That is going to be-- (laughs) That's a 10 to hit. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: 10 to hit? No. 
MATT: 10 to hit. 
LIAM: ♪ ("Price is Right" loss trombone) ♪ 
MATT: Goes wide. It seems a bit-- Actually no. It should have-- Even worse with disadvantage because of the sunlight. So yeah, it completely misses you, and it's like, "(dejected moan)." (laughter) 
MATT: Makes the saddest little specter sound. 
TRAVIS: (dejected moan) 
ASHLEY: Don't be tad (sad). 
LIAM: (dry poof) 
MATT: "(growls) (dejected moan)" (laughter) 
MATT: You're too bright as it tries to bat at you. The two other are gone, so top of the round. It's now these two guys' turn. One of them made their save. 
SAM: Yes. 
MATT: The other one doesn't. 
MATT: This guy-- 
ASHLEY: Oh, I forgot about that one. 
MATT: -- continues to move this way. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Got out of the muck. 
MATT: Indeed, he's going to use his action to move. 
SAM: Back. 
MATT: He can only get about there. This one here is going to dart up out of the muck to get over here and is going to attack you, Fearne. 
SAM: Oh, jesus. 
LIAM: Stop it. 
TALIESIN: Sunlight is also going to be here. 
MATT: Two strikes against you. Yes. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Disadvantage on each strike, though. 
LIAM: Goddamn it. 
MATT: First one, natural 20-- 
SAM: Oh no! 
MATT: - with disadvantage. The other one's going to be a 16. 
ASHLEY: Doesn't hit. 
MATT: Doesn't hit. 
SAM: Whoa. 
ASHLEY: Ooh. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
MATT: The second attack against you with his longsword. It's going to be 19 to hit. 
ASHLEY: That hits. 
MATT: With disadvantage. 
LAURA: (gasps) 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: 21. 
LAURA: (groans) 
MATT: So it does hit you with the second strike. 
SAM: That's going to take her down. 
ASHLEY: That's going to take me down. 
MARISHA: Silvery Barbs. 
SAM: Oh! 
MARISHA: It's refreshed! Silvery Barbs. 
MATT: That's true. What's the range on it? 
MARISHA: ♪ Silvery Barbs ♪ I think it's 60. 
LAURA: ♪ Silvery Barbs ♪ 
SAM: It's totally overpowered. 
MARISHA: 60 feet. 
TRAVIS: ♪ It's Silvery Barbs ♪ 
MATT: 60 feet? Yeah, it is. 
TALIESIN: Do you have to-- 
LIAM: Whoa. 
ASHLEY: I know! (laughs) 
LIAM: Maybe I should've given you the AC. 
MATT: That makes it a 17. What's your AC? 
ASHLEY: 17. 
MATT: It hits you. 
ASHLEY: Okay. That's all right. That's all right. 
MATT: But good try. But good try. All right, so that's going to be with his longsword. 
LAURA: Good try. 
ASHLEY: Good try, good try, good try. 
MATT: That's going to be 12 points of slashing damage. 
ASHLEY: I'm out. 
MATT: (thwack) As it pulls out of the muck, "(angry growl)" rushes up with an unnatural fury and rage and-- (thwack) One strike goes wide against Fearne. 
TALIESIN: Fuck. 
MATT: You duck out of the way. 
LAURA: Oh no. 
MATT: Then it wildly backhands with the sword, and it catches you right in the chest and the blade sinks a few inches in. You watch Fearne's eyes go wide before she hits the ground unconscious. 
SAM: That means Daylight drops and the necrotic thing drops. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Yep, everything's down. 
MATT: Daylight's not concentration. 
SAM: Oh. 
MARISHA: That's right, you cast an orb-y thing and it just lasts. 
LAURA: Oh, amazing. 
SAM: Okay. 
MARISHA: But our-- 
SAM: Necrotic thing. 
MARISHA: -- super sick necrotic thing is gone. 
TALIESIN: Is now down. 
ASHLEY: Hold on, wait. 
LAURA: Wait? 
MARISHA: Shit. 
TALIESIN: Unless we got a reaction. 
MARISHA: Do you have any-- 
SAM: I used mine already. 
ASHLEY: Wait, my Armor of Agathys? Wait, hold on. 
MARISHA: Is that a reaction? 
MATT: If I remember right, this is an action, you have to do it in advance, unfortunately. 
ASHLEY: That's true. 
LAURA: Oh. 
MARISHA: Do you have any shield reactions? 
ASHLEY: That would've been good. 
MARISHA: I don't think druids have shields. 
LIAM: No, they don't. 
LAURA: You have to do it before-- 
ASHLEY: I don't think they do, (mumbles) okay I'm out. 
TRAVIS and LAURA: (laugh) 
MATT: That finishes its turn. FCG, you're up, with Imogen on deck. 
SAM: Mass Cure Wounds. 
MARISHA: Hey! 
ASHLEY: But because of the Aura of Life-- 
MATT: Yeah? That was just slashing damage. It wasn't necrotic. 
ASHLEY: Well, if I go down to zero-- 
MATT: Well, if you're down to zero at the beginning of the turn, then you get that one, but the spell's gone, so. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, that makes sense. 
MATT: It's more for everyone else on that one. No, good looking out. 
ASHLEY: I was just trying to negotiate. 
MATT: Good looking out. 
TALIESIN: Good try. 
MATT: That's all right. FCG, what you got? 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LIAM: Mass Cure Wounds. 
SAM: Mass Cure Wounds. Everybody get-- Oh, these are terrible rolls. 
SAM: What were the first two? What's my spell casting modifier? I think it's 16 points of healing. 
MARISHA: How many dice are you supposed to roll? 
SAM: 3d8 plus three. 
MARISHA: Because my Gift of the Ever-Living Ones, I regain max dice roll whenever I get healed. 
MATT: That's true. 
SAM: You do? 
MARISHA: I do. 
SAM: So 27 to you. 
MARISHA: Great. 
MATT: Great, everyone gets-- 
LAURA: That's amazing. 
SAM: 16. 
MATT: 16, everyone heals. You're now back to consciousness at 16. 
LAURA: Amazing. 
SAM: Does that affect me, too? Actually, let me look at the actual spell. I've never actually-- 
MATT: You should look at the spell. (laughs) 
LAURA: (laugh) 
SAM: Six creatures, so one of us doesn't get it. 
TALIESIN: I don't need it. 
SAM: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MATT: There you go. 
ASHLEY: (sickly cough) 
MATT: Okay. (laughter) 
MATT: But you are conscious on the ground. 
TRAVIS: (power down) (power up) 
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm just laying down. 
SAM: Then bonus action, I will take my saw and come try to finish the job on that guy who doesn't have a yellow ring around him. 
MATT: Okay, go for it. 
SAM: Come on, baby. 
TRAVIS: (saw blade whirring) 
MARISHA: Tentacley boy? 
SAM: Natural 20 again! (cheering) 
MATT: Nice! Okay. So yeah, go ahead and roll the dice, double that, and then add your temporary. 
TRAVIS: Let's go! 
SAM: Five, 10. Okay, 13 plus the 10 temporary hit points I've been carrying this whole time. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MARISHA: Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. (Minnesotan) Oh, yah. 
LAURA: Oh yah! 
ASHLEY: Oh, yah, great job. 
SAM: 23. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: 23. It's barely holding on. (groaning) 
MATT: But you're like, (buzzing) carve through its body with a buzzsaw. 
MARISHA: Wait, did you double dice damage? 
SAM: Do I get Divine Strike on this? It's not a weapon. 
MATT: Yeah, it's melee. 
SAM: Is it a weapon? 
MATT: Yeah, it's a weapon. 
SAM: Okay, is it a weapon? 
MATT: Yeah, it's a melee attack, it's a weapon. Your buzzsaw is a weapon. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
SAM: This isn't a buzzsaw. This is my spiritual saw. 
LAURA: Spiritual? Oh. 
MATT: Oh, I see. No, this does not get added to it. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: But it does carve through. It's (whirring) digging into it. He's like "(groans)." 
SAM: He's still holding on? 
MATT: Barely holding. Finish your turn? 
SAM: That's it. 
MATT: Imogen, you're up. 
LAURA: Okay. Okay. Holding my hand, and I'm going to hit him. I hope that this-- I'm going to hit him with a 4th-level Witch Bolt from behind. 
MATT: Which one? 
LAURA: The big guy. 
MATT: The big guy? 
LAURA: Which bolt? That bolt. 
SAM and ASHLEY: (laugh) 
MATT: All right, 4th-level Witch Bolt. Go ahead and roll an attack. 
ASHLEY: Let's go. 
MATT: He's currently this beacon of Daylight-- (sizzling) 
LAURA: 25. 
MATT: 25 hits, go ahead and roll damage. That's 4d12, I believe? 
LAURA: 4d12, yes. Two, three. 
MATT: It's force damage? 
LAURA: Four. This is lightning damage. 
MATT: For a Witch Bolt? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Awesome, go for it. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
LAURA: Ooh! 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LAURA: Whoa! 12 plus 11 is 23? 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: 33 plus-- Wow! 12, 11, 10, and nine. 
MATT: That's great. 
LIAM: Wow. 
LAURA: Wow. 33, and then nine, 42 points. 
TRAVIS: 42. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
TALIESIN: Whoa! 
MATT: How do you want to do this? (cheerful exclaiming) 
LAURA: Yes! 
MATT: You watch-- By the way. You have it grappled and it's about to sink into its own shadow. 
TRAVIS: Oh no. 
SAM: Ooh yes. 
ASHLEY: Don't you dare. 
MATT: As a teleportation effect, grapple doesn't affect it. 
LAURA: Oh! 
MATT: And you watch as-- It's now, with Chetney climbing on it, it (slurp) begins to sink into the ground. What do you do? 
LAURA: I'm aiming directly between his two shoulder blades and a lightning bolt hits it in the back and then snakes around him and he's covered in the lightning. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
MATT: Lightning (electricity buzzing) arcs around. 
SAM: Like Tesla coils-- 
LAURA: Yeah, Tesla coils. 
MATT: Up the horns as the electricity is carving around. You see it's going, "(strained grunts)" 
TRAVIS: (comical grunting) 
MATT: The lightning all gathers into the Daylight orb that still resides in its chest, and it seems to try and capture and hold it inward. For a moment, it gets quiet. Its eyes go wide. (explosion) -- and just detonates, that shadow scattered into a hundred pieces before dissipating, splattering against the nearby tree, and then sizzling off like smoke. 
TRAVIS: (fading howl) (laughter) 
MATT: You do indeed fall prone. 
TRAVIS: (bodily thuds) 
LAURA and MATT: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: (howling wince) 
LIAM: (echoing groans) 
TRAVIS: (echoing groans) 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: As soon as my-- 
LAURA: All right, I think that's-- 
MATT: Does that finish your turn, Imogen? 
SAM: All of its thralls die as well? 
MATT: Actually, this would die as well. 
SAM: Okay, okay, okay. 
MARISHA: Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. 
LIAM: Got it. 
LAURA: Is Fearne on the ground still? 
TALIESIN: Alive, but-- 
MATT: Alive, but on the ground, yeah. 
LAURA: Okay, then I'm going to use my Telepathic Shove and try to shove the guy that's standing over her five feet back. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: (sickly cough) 
MATT: He fails and gets pushed five feet back. 
LIAM: Fearne! 
MATT: Into the muck. We'll say for the sake of brevity at this point because these two guys are on the cusp of death, and there's a number of people going before they take their turn. So with whatever expediency and mercy you hold in your heart, you go and expel the necrotic energy that holds these two wights together and lay them to rest here in the center of this ash bog portion of the Grey Valley. 
LIAM: Is there a corpse for the big one? 
LAURA: Or did he just-- 
TRAVIS: No, he exploded into sizzling shadow bits. 
MATT: Yeah. 
LIAM: So Fira is gone? 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
LIAM: That is 23. 
MATT: 23. You see amongst the darkened, ashy shadow and the bit of thick skirt-like red shredded material that was wrapped around its lower torso fall on the ground. There's that little bit of drifting black smoke, like shadow that's still emanating and fading away around it. There's a faint blue teal glow emanating from inside that material. 
LIAM: I will-- Ah, fuck it. I reach in and try to find anyone living. 
MATT: You pull in and reach. You don't find any physical body, but you do see within that bundle this faint, fading energy, this spiritual shred remaining. 
SAM: Oh. 
LIAM: I reach my hand out toward it with an open palm and try to give one last living contact. 
MATT: As you hold your hand out, the energy seems to expand, and you see the small mote of soul begin to take the transparent form of a young elven figure. She reaches out and touches her hand to yours and looks to your eyes. Smiles, silently nods, looks in the direction you were traveling, and then (soft breeze) vanishes. 
LAURA: Sorry, Orym. 
LIAM: The other two were just-- 
SAM: Dead? 
LIAM: Dead in the mud, too, right? 
MATT: Taken and turned beyond recollection. 
SAM: We should gather their personal effects, I guess, for their families? 
TALIESIN: That's a good idea. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Maybe their swords? 
TRAVIS: We could throw the bodies in the hole. 
LAURA: If they have any rings on their fingers, or jewelry or anything. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: We'll get the rest of the flowers, too. 
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. 
SAM: Oh yeah. 
MARISHA: Do they have any flowers on them? 
MATT: Not on them, no. But you gather what's present and it fills about a third of the satchel. 
SAM: (sighs) 
LAURA: Oy vey. Fira was looking towards the direction we were headed? 
LIAM: Headed in the first place, yeah. 
LAURA: All right, that's good sign. 
TALIESIN: I think that means there's more of those. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: That's not everyone who's missing. 
LAURA: Yeah, maybe everyone else is all right still. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: That was a beatdown. Do we need a moment to collect ourselves? 
LIAM: Yes. 
SAM: As in going to sleep? 
TRAVIS: Like a short rest? 
MARISHA: A short rest. 
LIAM: Sure. 
SAM: Sure. 
TRAVIS: Maybe against the cover of some of these taller rocks from the things above. We can get into the little nooks of these big 'uns? 
LAURA: Sure. 
LIAM: I will-- Letters' suggestion is a good one, though. I'll check the two that are remaining and take their weapons, and respectfully look for any kind of personal effects and put them in the hole. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Yep, I'll open it up. 
MATT: Commemorative chains, jewelry. Of course, weapons. Often, especially at certain levels of station, they have their names or initials engraved on personal effects, their arms and armaments. So you gather those and lay them to rest in the way that you do for any fallen Ashari, leaving a bit of life over where they are put to rest. One of the few beads of color that currently now sits in this colorless land. As you all find a little alcove there to take a moment and gather your strength, regain your breath and conjecture what other dangers may await you in the path you walk. All you can hear is that wind. (whooshing) Cold. The sight of smoke from where you walk. The hint of smoke from the direction you seek. And that's where we'll end tonight's session. 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
TRAVIS: Ooh. 
MATT: We'll pick up there next time. 
SAM: Oh my god. 
TRAVIS: Ashley Johnson! That was a game! 
TALIESIN: Fucking clutch motherfucker! 
ASHLEY: All righty, okay, okay, okay. 
TRAVIS: That was fun! 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Woof! 
TALIESIN: Saved-- 
ASHLEY: Woof. 
TRAVIS: What was that spell called? 
MARISHA: The Aura of-- 
SAM: Aura of-- 
MATT: Aura of Life. That definitely turned the tides. 
TRAVIS: Big time. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: It made it into a somewhat dangerous encounter from what was a very dangerous encounter. 
LAURA: Oh my gosh. 
MATT: Especially with the luck I was rolling. I was rolling very well. 
TRAVIS: That was a good encounter. 
LAURA: Yes, you were. 
TRAVIS: That was perfect. 
MATT: That's right. 
LAURA: Just for the record, since I already used the staff today and I won't be able to use it again, I'm putting it away, and I'm taking the blood vial. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: I'm attuning to that. 
MATT: You got it. 
TRAVIS: I'll also take the short rest to put on the butcher's bib because we ain't fucking around in this place. 
MATT: (laughs) You got it. 
MARISHA: I'm going to roll a couple of hit die just to get back. 
MATT: Yeah, if you want to go ahead and take your hit dice for this short rest. 
MARISHA: Might as well. 
MATT: Any sort of other short rest-- 
LIAM: Cool. 
MATT: -- elements that come back, we'll have that at the ready next time we jump in. 
LIAM: I get all my Battle Master shit back. 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
MATT: Hell yeah. 
LIAM: Thank you. 
TRAVIS: Good shit, Matt. 
MATT: That was fun. 
SAM: That was great. 
MATT: But we will see you for the next session. Thank you all so much for joining us. We love you very much, and is it Thursday yet? 
LIAM: Doh. (No) 
MATT: Good night. 
TRAVIS: (howls)