List of Transcripts

Contents

1 Pre-Show
2 Part I
3 Break
4 Part II


Pre-Show[]
MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. 
TRAVIS: We play Dungeons & Dragons! (exclaiming) 
ASHLEY: (shouts) 
MATT: Yeah, exactly. Before we get into our episode tonight, we do have some announcements to get through, beginning with our first sponsor of the night, Atlus, and their new game "Persona 5 Tactica." Sam. 
SAM: "Persona 5 Tactica" is out now, and it is awesome. It's a thrilling, tactical role playing game set in the Persona universe, which many of the cast here have been a part of for years. After a strange incident, the Phantom Thieves wander into a bizarre realm with citizens living under tyrannical oppression. They find themselves in grave danger until a mysterious revolutionary named-- Ah, Erina ("Arena")? 
MATT: Erina. ("Arena") 
SAM: Erina? ("Éhrina") Erina. ("Arena") 
LIAM: You got it. 
SAM: Erina. Okay. 
LAURA: You're doing great. 
SAM: Erina makes them an enticing offer. But what truth lies behind Erina's deal with the Phantom Thieves? "Persona 5 Tactica" features an all-new story, returning fan favorite characters, brand new allies and foes. Ignite your heart with "Persona 5 Tactica."
JERRY: Sam. 
SAM: What? What is it? I'm doing an ad right now for "Persona 5." Oh, oh, oh. 
TRAVIS: Jerry. 
SAM: It came? It came! (groaning) 
ASHLEY: Oh god. DNA Agency of Detection? 
SAM: Oh my god. Oh my god! I-- Oh my god. Guys. 
TRAVIS: Got to consult your papers. 
SAM: I got to read my script. (laughter) 
SAM: Guys. 
ASHLEY: What timing to get these results. (laughter) 
SAM: Shh. This is big, Ashley. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay. 
SAM: I always suspected, but I never knew. 
MATT: What did you not know, Sam? 
SAM: It was a paternity test, Matt. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
MATT: Oh great. 
SAM: I can't believe it, but it came back positive. Matt, you are my father. 
MATT: I actually don't think that's physically possible. 
SAM: DNA doesn't lie, Matt. That day when I asked you to lick all those envelopes, I was actually harvesting your genetic material to send them to my guy. 
ASHLEY: Your guy. 
SAM: I can't believe I finally found you after all these years. 
MATT: Sam, I am not, nor have I ever been, your father at any time. 
SAM: No, you haven't. All those soccer games and recitals and graduations. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MATT: Oh my god. 
SAM: But now we can start over. I'm so glad you're willing to put in the work, Dad. 
MATT: Don't call me that. 
SAM: Father Matt? 
MATT: Don't call me that. 
SAM: Daddy-O? 
MATT: No. No. 
SAM: Papá? 
MATT: You're older than me. Look, why don't you just finish the ad, Sam? 
SAM: Would that earn your respect and love, Pápa? 
MATT: Sure. 
SAM: Okay. I'm overcome with emotion. And speaking of, an emotional uprising begins with "Persona 5 Tactica." (laughter) 
SAM: Leading a revolution in Persona's iconic universe. Build your dream squad of beloved heroes. Overthrow your enemies in style with powerful Personas. "Persona 5 Tactica" is now available on Game Pass, Xbox One, Xbox X/S, Windows, PS5, PS4, Nintendo Switch, and Steam. Pápa, did I make you proud? 
MATT: Moving on. Our next sponsor-- (laughter) 
MATT: -- is Meta and their upcoming action role playing VR game exclusively on Meta Quest, "Asgard's Wrath 2." 
SAM: It spells Dad. 
MATT: Oh, Sam. (groaning) 
LAURA: Hey, Matt. 
MARISHA: That's so-- 
ASHLEY: But also-- 
MATT: That's impressive. 
ASHLEY: DNA test report. Like I love that everybody really went all out. 
TRAVIS: Oh, is it actual-- 
LAURA: DNA, the basics. 
ASHLEY: DNA, the basics. 
SAM: It's like the Wikipedia page of DNA. 
ASHLEY: You are the father. Okay. Sorry. Go. 
TRAVIS: You used AI to make that, didn't you? 
MARISHA: Probably, probably. 
MATT: New VR game exclusively on Meta Quest, "Asgard's Wrath 2." (cheering) 
MATT: Embark on an epic adventure as you traverse vast realms battling gods, monsters, and the mischievous Loki who threatens the very fabric of the universe. It might sound a little familiar to some. Align with legendary Egyptian gods, engage in combat with deadly warriors, and conquer mythical creatures using unique weapons and play styles. Immerse yourself in a massive, free-roaming world, solve mind bending-- mind building god-scale puzzles, and even possess mortal heroes and loyal animals to aid your quest. Thanks to groundbreaking VR technology, you'll come face to face with ancient gods and experience the world from both mortal and godly perspectives. It's wild. You'll like it. Available starting December 15th exclusively on Meta Quest and free with your purchase of Meta Quest 3. "Asgard's Wrath 2" is designed for players age 17 and older. 
ASHLEY: Whoa. 
MATT: Act now, as the bundle offer ends on January 27th, 2024. For more details, visit asgardswrath2.com. Thank you, Meta, so much for sponsoring this episode. 
TRAVIS: Thanks, Meta. 
MATT: I'm not Sam's dad. 
LAURA: Woo! 
MATT: Marisha. 
SAM: Dad. 
MARISHA: Hm, it's weird. The first episode of Candela Obscura: Circle of Tide & Bone-- (cheering) 
MARISHA: -- is available to watch right now on Twitch, YouTube, and our podcast channels. 
TRAVIS: So good. 
MARISHA: So good. You can join us for episode two on January 4th, two on fourth. In the meantime, you can pick up a copy of the "Candela Obscura Rulebook" to launch your own investigations and leave your mark on the Fairelands. 
TRAVIS: Nice. 
MATT: Fantastic. And Ashley. 
TRAVIS: Sibilants. 
ASHLEY: Hey! Thank you so much for tuning into our Giving Tuesday Red Nose Day one-shot last week! (cheering) 
MARISHA: So fun. 
ASHLEY: So good. You can check out our adventure with the incredible Sam Richardson. 
TRAVIS: Woo! 
ASHLEY: And the incredible Tony Hale. 
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Woo hoo! 
LIAM: Hup! 
ASHLEY: On our Twitch, YouTube, and podcast channels right now. 
LAURA: Woo! 
TRAVIS: Ah-may-zing. 
ASHLEY: Such a good game. 
MATT: It was so much fun. 
LAURA: It was awesome. 
ASHLEY: Just the greatest. 
SAM: It was the greatest show. (laughter) 
SAM: So natural. 
MARISHA: They did really good. 
TRAVIS: Also, Laura's character needs to live on somewhere. 
ASHLEY: Yes, Bramble. 
MATT: It's technically a prequel to even Campaign 1. So all those characters are canon in the past, so whoever survived is still out there. 
TALIESIN: Bobby's a man now. 
MATT: That's true. 
TALIESIN: He's Robert. 
MARISHA: I love watching new people fall in love with the game, though. 
SAM: Yeah. 
MATT: Is Bobby Socks a prequel to your Darrington Brigade character? 
TALIESIN: Oh no. Oh no! 
SAM: Bobby Socks becomes-- 
MARISHA: The Owlbear! 
TALIESIN: Oh, now I've got thoughts. We're going to go into that. 
LAURA: Oh my god. That would be amazing! 
TALIESIN: Oh my god. 
SAM: He saw his parents killed and the pearls. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: The pearls. Always pearls. 
MARISHA: The pearls. 
TALIESIN: They were trying to cast a spell and-- okay. 
MATT: Oh my goodness. 
ASHLEY: So good. You can also still support-- 
SAM: Oh! 
LAURA: Oh shit! 
ASHLEY: -- the campaign from now until the end of the year by making a donation at critrole.co-- Sorry. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Weird thing happening in my throat. critrole.com/rednoseday, to help eradicate childhood poverty. (cheering) 
MATT: Thank you so much, Ashley. 
LAURA: Yay. 
MATT: Laura, your turn in the fire. 
LAURA: Okay, we'll see what happens. Right now, you guys. Oh, you hold this up and I'll hold this up. 
LIAM: I'm ready. 
LAURA: We have more Bells Hells dice sets! 
LIAM: Ding-da-ling. 
LAURA: ♪ We've got an Imogen and an Orym of the Air Ashari ♪ 
LIAM: That's me! Let's see what they look like. 
LAURA: Hold on. They are so pretty. 
ASHLEY: These ones are freaking cool. 
TRAVIS: Oh, is the lavender stuff for Chet? 
LAURA: Lavender, and then there's a red storm in the middle. 
LIAM: I have little flowers in mine. 
LAURA: It's so beautiful. 
MATT: Really pretty. 
LAURA: Artists Leia Ronda-- Nope, I said that wrong. Leia Rondeau, thank you so much for the designs! Also. Oh, I wanted to surprise. Okay. I wanted to surprise you, Taliesin, with this because I don't think you've seen it yet. I've been sitting on it this whole game. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. It's here?! 
LAURA: I just got it out! (excited squeal) 
ASHLEY: I've heard about this. 
SAM: Ooh! 
TALIESIN: What? 
TRAVIS: Whoa! 
ASHLEY: It's so cool! 
LAURA: It's an Ashton Greymoore jacket! 
TALIESIN: Oh my god. 
LAURA: You guys, you guys, you guys, it's got a hoodie. 
LIAM: That's nice. 
LAURA: It's denim. It's got this awesomeness. 
ASHLEY: That's so cool. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god, look at the little frayed-- Ah! 
MARISHA: It's so nice. 
LAURA: Guys, it's so comfy cozy. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god. 
MATT: That's really cool. 
LAURA: I was sitting on it. 
SAM: Under her keister. 
MATT: She will sit on every one that you order. 
LAURA: This is so cool. Also, at the same time-- 
MATT: No, no. 
LAURA: Wait, look. In addition to that-- Where'd I put them? We're also selling-- 
TALIESIN: Here, I'll hold that. Here, let me help you with that. 
LAURA: We're also selling these patches. 
ASHLEY and LIAM: Oh! 
MARISHA: Patches?! 
LAURA: So you can put the patches on the jacket! 
MARISHA: Wait, what do they have? 
TRAVIS: That's so punk. 
LAURA: I know. It's so punk! (laughs) 
SAM: Punks always buy patches to put on their merch. 
LAURA: Jordyn Torrence-- Our beautiful Jordyn Torrence did these patches and they're so cute. 
MATT: That's really cute. 
LAURA: You can also just get the patches and put them on anything, like a backpack. 
TRAVIS: Jordyn, you're so talented. 
LAURA: Or I don't know if you guys can see them. They're so cool. 
TRAVIS: Put the face one. 
TALIESIN: If you want, you can use floss. That's how you get those really fun little white stitches as you can stitch them. 
LAURA: Just Don't. 
MATT: With floss? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: That's cool. 
LAURA: Mighty Nein. We got a Mighty Nein one in here. 
ASHLEY: We got a Vox Machina. 
LAURA: We got a Critical Role. We got some Ashton symbols that mean things. 
TALIESIN: They do mean things. 
TRAVIS: Hishari. 
LAURA: So yeah, check them out. Also, in addition to that, you guys. 
TRAVIS: Is there more stuff under your butt? 
LAURA: Not under my butt, but next to my chair. 
LIAM: In it. 
LAURA: We have partnered-- (laughter) 
LAURA: We have partnered with Geek Grind to create Mighty Nein inspired coffees and teas! (cheering) 
MATT: That's right. 
LAURA: You guys, look at all of these amazing flavors. They're on sale and available right now at GeekGrindCoffee.com. 
SAM: I want the tea. 
TRAVIS: I got English Breakfast. 
LAURA: Yeah, there's some-- 
SAM: I want the tea. 
LAURA: There's some teas and there's some coffees. 
SAM: I'm a tea person. 
TALIESIN: I have chamomile. 
ASHLEY: You have tea? 
LAURA: Oh, and you have one, too. 
TRAVIS: Here, switch. 
LAURA: You have Brew of the Solstice. 
MATT: I have Brew of the Solstice. Nothing goes along with your coffee like a coming apocalypse. 
LAURA: Jester's Sweet Treat Cinnamon Chocolate Flavored Coffee, you guys. 
SAM and MARISHA: Whoa! 
ASHLEY: Yasha's Lightning Elixir Vanilla Flavored Coffee. 
TRAVIS: Brenatto's Mystery Potion Flavored Coffee. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
MARISHA: I got Beauregard's Interrogation Brew. 
SAM and ASHLEY: Whoa! 
SAM: That sounds intense. 
MARISHA: Mocha flavored. 
LAURA: I feel like that one's going to make it. 
TALIESIN: Or is it?! (laughter) 
LIAM: I have Widogast's Amber Awakening Orange Spice Tea. 
ASHLEY: Ooh. 
SAM: I have Fjord's English Breakfast Tea. 
TALIESIN: I have Caduceus' Blooming Garden Egyptian Chamomile Tea. 
LAURA: We can open them up. I want to smell them. 
MATT: What could possibly go wrong? 
TRAVIS: Let's keep going while we open. 
LAURA: Oh, you guys. We're going to keep going. 
MATT: Liam! 
LIAM: Oh, is it my turn on the gauntlet? 
MATT: Your turn, buddy. 
LAURA: Oh my gosh. 
LIAM: Guys. Dark Horse is releasing an original graphic novel, if you haven't heard yet, featuring Doctor Anna Ripley. 
TRAVIS: Ripley! 
LIAM: "Legend of Vox Machina: The Whitestone Chronicles, Volume One: Ripley" is written by Marieke Nijkamp, illustrated by Tyler Walpole, and lettered by Richard Starkings and Comicraft's Jimmy Betancourt. This is the first of three, actually, interconnected stories serving as pre-- Oh my god, I love coffee so much. So much. Interconnected stories serving as prequels to the "Legend of Vox Machina" animated series. So if you watched that, you might like this book, you can find it at the end of July 2024, which is too far away, wherever graphic novels are sold. Visit comicshoplocator.com to find a local comic shop near you. 
SAM: Hey, that looks good on you. 
LIAM: Comics! 
TALIESIN: Yeah, feel good. 
MATT: Fantastic. 
TRAVIS: Dang, Taliesin, that looks good, dude. 
TALIESIN: I feel good. 
MATT: That looks really awesome. 
TRAVIS: Everybody, beat up Taliesin, take his jacket. 
MATT: That was a beefy. That was beefy announcements. 
LAURA: Now, I want some coffee. 
MATT: Now, I want some coffee while I chug my energy drink because I want to detonate, apparently. But that concludes our announcements. So now we can finally get into tonight's episode of Critical Role. 
♪ Critical ♪♪ Critical ♪♪ It's Thursday ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ One-by-one, we climb until we reach the top. ♪♪ Two-by-two, we fall. ♪ 
LAURA: ♪ Will we meet our end or meet our destiny? ♪♪ Hold your breath and roll! ♪ 
MATT: How do you want to do this? 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ Who knows what will happen? ♪♪ He might! ♪♪ But one thing's for sure, ♪♪ We never give up on the fight! ♪ 
LIAM: ♪ From the healer ♪♪ To the renegade ♪ 
MATT: ♪ We all share the same goal ♪
MATT and TALIESIN: ♪ Adding more allies ♪♪ Taking more chances ♪ 
SAM: ♪ Hold your breath and roll ♪ 
MARISHA: You can certainly try. 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ It's Thursday night. ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ From darkness, our friendship will rise ♪♪ But one thing's for sure: ♪♪ We never give up on the fight ♪♪ Oh, get ready, ♪♪ Get ready, ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪
(flames whooshing)

Part I[]
MATT: And welcome back. So last we left off: Bells Hells, after traversing the odds and ends of Exandria, finishing in the Shattered Teeth to seek some answers and finding an artifact that is somewhat involved in the elemental primordial history of Ashton and the Hishari people that his parents created and destroyed. You returned to Whitestone to prepare for a journey as a recon operation to the moon Ruidus, to discover what is transpiring there to prepare for the eventual assault that the forces of Exandria are preparing for. On the eve of your journey, a ritual was attempted and hijacked in secret by Ashton to pursue what was understood to be his destiny. However, it proved to be too powerful and nearly destroying him twice, through the will of his strength, his constitution, and a couple of well-placed magical items and spells, survived, losing an arm, gaining an arm and coughed up the Spark of Rau'shan. While seemingly something has stirred within him since this. However, in doing this, it broke much of the trust and the calm within the group of Bells Hells and in this tumultuous period of time, this fracture has caused you all to take a pause on your journey towards the red moon. Deciding that one, Fearne, who was at the epicenter of confusion and hurt in the midst of this, wanted to visit her Nana and consider the Fey Realm might be a decent place to try and take a rest to recover and rekindle this trust of the troop. Arriving back in the familiar space of the Ligament Manor in the Fey Realm, your Nana Morri, Morrigan herself, the Fatestitcher, the grand, terrifying hag that exists in this shadowed region of the Fey Realm, welcomed you all back. As well as realizing that your parents have come here as well, absconding from the Hellcatch Valley and looking for a place of peace and/or safety in the midst of all the chaos that is surrounding the Hellcatch. Upon arrival and some comfort, some interesting conversations transpired in which FCG decided to offer the idea of team building exercises as some sort of a good, a mental health retreat for all of you to work together and try and figure out ways to resolidify these binds, which excited Nana Morri, who eagerly agreed to aid you in this endeavor. As her cackles echoed through the reaches of the tree itself, that is the skeletal structure of Ligament Manor, you all, those of you who took them, sip upon your tiki drinks and consider what lies in the days ahead of you here where time seems to slow to a crawl under Nana Morri. So. 
TALIESIN: It's just water. 
MATT: What would you like to do, Bells Hells? 
MARISHA: Uh, uh, uh. 
SAM: It's nighttime? It's daytime? It's morning? Did we just sleep? What happens? 
LAURA: ♪ It's seven o'clock on the dot ♪ 
MARISHA: It's the Fey Realm, it's always a little twilighty. 
SAM: But were we building towards a long rest or we're just good, we're just good? It's just happening. 
MATT: Well, you took a long rest after the ritual that took place at the ziggurat and in the following morning you all went ahead and found Allura. By the way, Allura Vysoren is still traveling with you and seems deeply uncomfortable, but getting a little more used to the strange interior. But you've been basically been given the run of the manor for the time being, for whatever your purposes may be until probably you and Morri will probably take some time to figure out what you want to do. So who's up to what? 
TRAVIS: Hey, Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Yeah? 
TRAVIS: So can I ask you a question about your Nana? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: I've heard things. Does she do, like, wishes? 
ASHLEY: I mean, what do you mean? 
TRAVIS: I heard somewhere that ha-- wha-- mm-- entities sometimes found in places like this, they might give you your wildest-- 
ASHLEY: A little something? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Oh, I see what you mean. Well, yeah, I mean, you could definitely talk to her. I mean, it's definitely a type of thing-- It's more of a deal, I think, than a wish. 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
ASHLEY: So, you know, you have to give something to her if you're going to get something back. 
TRAVIS: Something in return. 
ASHLEY: I think that's how it works. 
TRAVIS: Okay, have you known of anybody that's made a deal with her? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: It always turns out, like, fine, right? The stories that it can go tits up is an exaggeration. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah. Well, no, I mean, sometimes it can go bad. 
SAM: Did you make a deal with her? 
ASHLEY: No, no, no, no, no. I mean, I can get anything I want from her. 
LAURA: What's the worst you ever saw happen? 
ASHLEY: Well, I think, like, sometimes, the tree garden, for instance. 
TRAVIS and LAURA: Mm. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, some of those, some were bad. 
LAURA: Sometimes people get turned into bushes? 
ASHLEY: Well, I don't know, that's my assumption that I think, maybe. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit, okay. 
ASHLEY: But I don't know, I think she just-- It's not forever. They're not going to-- 
LAURA: Be bushes forever? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, you know, I think she just, there's-- 
MARISHA: How long have some of these people been bushes, though? Hm. 
ASHLEY: I don't know. But, you know, I make them look a little better than just a regular bush. 
SAM: So you're trimming people? 
TRAVIS: Trimming the bush. 
LAURA: Do you think they feel it? When you cut their branches off? 
ASHLEY: I have never thought about that. 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
SAM: Do you have that Speak With Plants spell? 
MARISHA: Are they just screaming every time? 
ASHLEY: Maybe. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
ASHLEY: I mean, I think. I'm pretty sure they're people. That's just something I-- 
TRAVIS: They do kind of look like people. 
ASHLEY: Guys, I know my Nana's, like, a little weird, okay? 
LIAM: Is Lady Allura with us? 
MATT: She's currently at the tiki bar, inspecting the space, and you can see as Peepers the jackrabbit is nuzzled behind, its weird ears are following her as she goes, and occasionally (fluttering). 
LAURA: It has a ton of eyes, right? 
MATT: It doesn't have eyes on its face, just this big toothy grin. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: The teeth themselves prehensile individually. 
TRAVIS: Oh my god. 
MATT: The markings along the ears almost resemble large eyes. 
MARISHA: Nana Morri went back to her stories? 
MATT: For the time being, she's finishing up some sort of a scry session, occasionally cackling and slapping her knee. 
TRAVIS: Anjelica Huston can be seen in the-- 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
LIAM: There's a weird Xenomorph rabbit hovering around Allura right now? 
LAURA: Like this. 
MATT: It's over, following her to the tiki bar, and Allura is stepping over to the edge. Inspecting the space. This is just after the conversation with Nana Morri. Birdie has gone upstairs for the moment. Ollie is going over to the bar to help Allura with the drinks, and the rest of the mighty climbing and twisting tree that is the Ligament Manor, you can see, is winding up into the lantern-lit shadows above, the sound of dozens of evening creaking and cawing creatures echoing through the branches and briar. 
SAM: What were you interested in wishing for, Chetney? 
TRAVIS: Me? 
SAM: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: I'd go for my youth. 
SAM: You want to be young again? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I saw Deanna, and I mean, that was a trip. Let me tell you, living hundreds of years and then seeing an old flame come back, but they haven't changed a bit? I was a little jelly. 
MARISHA: Would you still want to keep your age, but just your appearance is youthful? 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I wouldn't want to give up any of the knowledge and wisdom and, you know, accomplishments I've had, just change the outside. 
SAM: You would want to be young again so that you could be with Deanna? 
TRAVIS: You wouldn't believe what I looked like 200 years ago. Even 100 years ago. Boy! 
SAM: Specifically to be with her? 
TRAVIS: No. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
SAM: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Just to look hot as shit again. I mean, I'm already pretty good, but-- 
SAM: But, like, why, though? Just to get with lots of people? What's the-- 
TRAVIS: No, I mean, I haven't come across many people that can actively grant wishes or make deals. I'm not sure about turning into a bush afterwards, but the idea of it seems pretty fucking appealing. 
SAM: I know, but-- 
ASHLEY: It could be a bit of a stretch. That's just an assumption I've always had. Maybe not. Maybe it's not. 
LIAM: You're pretty good looking now. Did you age into things like a fine wine, or was-- 
TRAVIS: Yeah, the chapter of the silver foxes, I'm kind of the head priest of the silver fox. 
LIAM: What was 120 year old Chetney like? 
TRAVIS: Oh man, well, most of my hair was still in. I had a bitchin' mustache. The chest hair was more accurately cultivated, curated. 
LAURA: Instead of these really sporadic patches you've got going on now. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, this is just au naturale. This is woodsman. But I used to do shapes. Sometimes there were arrows. 
LIAM: What kind of mustache? A tickler or a handlebar or-- 
TRAVIS: It kind of depended, yeah. 
LIAM: Oh. 
LAURA: What were you like as a teenager? Were you awkward? 
LIAM: Wearing diapers, probably. 
LAURA: I feel like you were awkward. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, kind of. I was kind of a loner. I traveled a lot, even as a teenager. I had lots of toys. 
SAM: But, sorry to keep harping on this-- 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
SAM: But, like, why, though? Why do you want to be young again? 
SAM: If you could have one wish, what would it be? 
SAM: Oh boy. 
TRAVIS: You don't have to answer. That was my answer, though. To look young again. 
SAM: But just to look young again. 
TRAVIS: Yeah! 
SAM: In order to find the family that you never had the first time around, or to-- 
TRAVIS: I think they're gone. 
SAM: Did you have a family? 
TRAVIS: Sure, big family. 
ASHLEY: Children? 
TRAVIS: No! No no no no no! 
SAM: Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Finding the love of your life? 
TRAVIS: I mean, I don't think so. Fuck. Don't make me go down that road. I hope not. I mean, I don't think so. 
SAM: You never had any interest in having a family, settling down? 
TRAVIS: Not really. 
SAM: Having a place to call your own? 
TRAVIS: No, I hadn't really thought about it. Seems like an awful lot of work. Upkeep. 
SAM: So you just want to wander? 
TRAVIS: No, I just like to be inspired. Plus, toys is an ever-evolving trade. An art form, really. The second you get stale, you've got to go to a new city. There's new things to see, things to spark off of. Ways to elevate your game. 
LIAM: This is the strangest conversation to be having-- 
SAM: No, I just-- 
TRAVIS: Orym, stop doing pushups! 
LIAM: Before we go to the-- 
LAURA: You were doing a lot of pushups yesterday. 
ASHLEY: You worked out a lot. 
LAURA: I mean, are you sore? Because I've never seen you work out that much. 
MARISHA: You're getting out your emotions that way, right? 
LIAM: I listen to you guys talk a lot. Sometimes it's not the smartest thing to let the first thoughts in your head pop out of your mouth, so I've been sitting on it-- 
ASHLEY: Disagree. 
LIAM: -- for a day. But I was stressed, too, and there's nothing like dumbbell squats. Is that a thing, Travis? 
TRAVIS: 100%. Those are called thrusters. 
LIAM: Nothing like thrusters to get the anxiety down. 
LAURA: Yeah, that's right. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LAURA: I mean. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to go say hi to my mom real quick. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: What was your Nana Morri alluding to? 
LAURA: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: I don't know. 
MARISHA: She kind of perked up when she saw your little demon prince kiss. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MARISHA: And was like, "Ooh! Just like your mother!" What does that mean? 
ASHLEY: What does that mean? 
MARISHA: Maybe that's where you got your fiery side. 
ASHLEY: My mom fucked around with Teven? 
MARISHA: I don't-- (stammering) You said it, not me. 
LAURA: Maybe not Teven specifically, but-- That'd be fucked. 
MARISHA: Would that be-- Would you-- Would it-- Would it really mess with your head if your dad wasn't your biological father? 
ASHLEY: Ollie? Well, mean-- 
MARISHA: If he was not the father? 
ASHLEY: You are not the father. I think it would be perfectly fine because I feel like I didn't really know them that much, anyway. You know, Nana's my parent, both. But we'll find out. 
LIAM: Your parent's whoever raised you. 
VOICEMAIL: "Good afternoon– Please join us for our--" (laughter) 
SAM: I know exactly what that call is because I get that call every single day. 
LAURA: Is it the school call? 
SAM: It's the school system. 
LAURA: Four times a day! Why so much? 
SAM: Yes, they call all the time. 
LIAM: Does Sending work again? 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
TALIESIN: Just junk Sends. Don't answer. 
MARISHA: Just junk Sends. 
TALIESIN: Don't reply to that message. 
MATT: Chetney, you take 14 points of psychic damage. 
TRAVIS: Augh! (laughter) 
MARISHA: Wait, he's actually doing it. 
LAURA: He marked it! 
MATT: Sure. 
MARISHA: He marked it. (laughs) 
TRAVIS: (whimpers) 
SAM: You're going to go talk to-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I'll do that, but I'll be back in a little bit. 
SAM: I'm going to go talk to Nana Morri about, you know, the scavenger hunt. 
ASHLEY: Oh, that's right. Do you have ideas? 
SAM: I have lots of ideas. 
ASHLEY: This is the perfect place for a scavenger hunt. 
SAM: I just feel like we have all been on our own separate paths, and this will really get us to come together and work together and maybe be ready as a team to go do what we have to do up on the moon. 
MARISHA: So it's, you're thinking, a group cooperative scavenger hunt, not-- 
LAURA: A competition. 
MARISHA: Competition-based. 
SAM: No, not a competition. Something where it forces us to work together. 
MATT: (Morri 1) "Oh, I've got ideas." You watch as Nana Morri's head is craned out of the shadows beyond her chair, and is appearing behind FCG's head a bit, the black, vacant spaces where the sockets sink in occasionally flickering with light. "I'm very excited to plot with your little metallic friend." 
LAURA: Great. 
ASHLEY: I'm excited. 
MATT: "Let's talk." Hand reaches out and palms your head. (metal screeching) 
SAM: My wheel's not moving, it's just dragging. 
TRAVIS: Get a wish! Maybe we should check out the rooms. Didn't we get rooms? 
MARISHA: We did. 
SAM: She made them. 
LAURA: Nana Morri made us some rooms, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah! I'm going to check out the bunks! 
MARISHA: All right. 
SAM: Bunks! 
LIAM: Chetney bonks. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: He does bonk. 
MATT: So the rest of you can scatter a bit and find there are some additional chambers, modest but comfortable in a creepy, assumed your theme, but maybe not quite correctly sort of vibe within each one. You feel a bit stereotyped when you enter each chamber, but it's a bedroom that, at least, you know, it's the thought that counts. 
TRAVIS: It's an AI-generated bedroom. 
MATT: Yeah. (laughter) 
MATT: Yeah, you suddenly have too many fingers and your teeth are wrong. 
LIAM: This is perfect for Nana Morri. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Based off a Buzzfeed quiz? 
MATT: The details keep turning into dog faces. It's weird. You said you're looking for-- 
ASHLEY: Yes, I'm going to go look for Birdie. 
MATT: Birdie, okay. You step up the stairs, seeing where she may have gone off to, and you see her having a conversation with the door to the Collection, the massive, tent-like chamber that's comprised of all the branches that forms the dome where Nana Morri's Collection is. You can see there's that living doorway of numerous bones and skull fragments that are all woven into branches, and they're all pushed to form a larger face that normally you can't see. It looks like a texture, like a creepy collection of various objects to form the doorway, but you're familiar with this as well. The door itself, while not specifically named, it is occasionally a wanting conversationalist. As you step up, you hear Birdie going, "I'm just so excited that she's come by again." The door goes, "Yeah, you know, it's been a bit since she's come by and talked, so I think a lot of people are excited here in the manor." 
ASHLEY: Hey, door. 
MATT: "Oh, look! There she is!" You see the cluster of bones creaks and scrapes as it tries to shift to form the expressions of this massive skull across it. "It's been some time, hey!" 
ASHLEY: It's been a little time. Hey, Birdie. 
MATT: "Why, hello there, darling." 
ASHLEY: I just wanted to come and catch up. 
MATT: "Of course." 
ASHLEY: See how things have been. 
MATT: "Yeah, let's go and have a little walk." 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MATT: "A little mother-daughter walk. I'd love that." 
ASHLEY: Let's do it. 
MATT: She puts her arm out. 
ASHLEY: Well, how's things? 
MATT: "Well, they've been a little strange, as I'm sure they've been on your side as well. You want to go towards the garden?" 
ASHLEY: Oh, yes, I would love to. 
MATT: "All right, all right." You start ascending the wooden steps that climb along one of the large, heavy branches that curves up into the higher parts of the canopy, the various forms of flickering lantern light giving orange and green and blue shifting coloration. She taps your arm. "We had to skedaddle quite quickly and get away from our little hideaway there. Got to say, it's a good thing your father has the Squint. It's definitely gotten us on some better paths and out of trouble quicker than others. But we tried to come through here. Hondir was with us. He-- He was a little too nervous to follow us through the fey gateway that we used." 
ASHLEY: Sure, sure. 
MATT: "So he went ahead, off on his own, towards Aeshanadoor to look for the rest of his Grim Verity folks." 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MATT: "We made sure to supply him up and give him one of the crawlers that we had all gussied up to tip top shape, and he went ahead and took off (zooms) southward. I've got to say, he was a bit of a nebbish, surly fellow when we first met him, but now he seems-- He's found himself a little confidence, too." 
ASHLEY: Well, great. 
MATT: "Watching him all on his own up there, his little goblin physique on that massive, purring machine, cruising on, leaving a dust trail behind, I could see it in his eyes, he was enjoying that little ride. He hadn't had a chance to before on his own." 
ASHLEY: Good for him. 
MATT: "I agree, I agree." 
ASHLEY: Well, so, I was talking with Nana. 
MATT: "Mm-hmm." 
ASHLEY: She was telling me that-that-that you might have something to tell me, and-and she said that it's not her story to tell. So I just wanted to know, did you have something to tell me? I don't know. 
MATT: Her jaunty steps come to a slow crawl and to an inevitable stop, and her hand stays resting on yours as she looks ahead a bit, her smile still there, but it's dropped a little. "What-what-what does she mean?" 
ASHLEY: I don't know. So, when we were out, I had kind of made, I didn't realize, I guess, a deal of sorts with this super hot devil guy. 
MATT: "Oh! Wow!" 
ASHLEY: Yeah, his name's Teven. Does that name sound familiar to you? 
MATT: "Not particularly, no." 
ASHLEY: Oh, thank god. Okay. So, this is, he kissed my hand, and it just stayed there. 
MATT: "That's not a nuptial thing or anything?" 
ASHLEY: No, no, no, no, no, no, no. 
MATT: "No. Okay, okay." 
ASHLEY: I think it's just, I really don't know. 
MATT: "Okay." 
ASHLEY: So hopefully I didn't do something too bad, but we'll see. 
MATT: "Well, just be careful. I don't know much in the realm of devils and the like, but from what I do, from heard around, they're a little difficult to tangle with. So just careful what you sign up for, I suppose." 
ASHLEY: Sure, sure, sure. 
MATT: "Just, you know." 
ASHLEY: Have you ever tangled with one before? 
MATT: "Not with a... Not with a devil, no." She picks up her step a little bit and pulls you along. "Let's get to that garden." 
ASHLEY: What about a demon? 
MATT: "No. No. (laughs) Look, I had a wild youth in some ways and some more than others, I'm sure. But I didn't mess with any of that infernal stuff necessarily. That's a bit beyond my realm." 
ASHLEY: Insight check. 
MATT: Make an insight check. Go for it. 
MARISHA: Yes! 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Necessarily. 
MARISHA: That's a weird necessarily to add on. 
ASHLEY: 29. 
LAURA and MARISHA: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: What! 
LIAM: Busted! 
ASHLEY: 16 plus 13. 
LAURA: You have 13 insight? 
ASHLEY: I do. I do. 
SAM: Use that shit all the time. 
MATT: So you're the group's lie detector. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
TRAVIS: You are? 
MATT: Apparently. 
LAURA: How do you get such a high-- That's amazing. 
MATT: Wisdom-based with some rogue expertise and a couple other things-- 
LIAM: Those goat eyes let in-- 
MATT: -- in there I think. 
LIAM: -- all the light. 
MATT: Yeah. I don't need to whisper to you, since you're the only one that's present in this conversation. She's not lying, but she's still-- She's definitely being guarded about something and you get the sense that she's like, you can feel her heartbeat, through her hand. There's an elevated adrenaline in her system and she's just holding it together while you two walk up towards the top of the Ligament Manor. "I think I know what Nana was talking about." 
ASHLEY: I know you're nervous, whatever it is, because your heartbeat is really fast and you keep licking your lips. Your mouth is a little dry probably. It's okay. Just tell me. 
MATT: "Um. Let's get to the garden. I just think we, this isn't much of a walk and talk conversation." 
ASHLEY: Sure, sure, sure. 
MATT: "You understand?" 
ASHLEY: Let's take a seat and find a spot. 
MATT: As she walks up and there's a pause after that where the conversation's held, waiting for her to speak, but you're just walking in silence and you can feel as she squeezes your hand a little tighter and she sighs heavily. You look up and watch as a cluster of 40 or so bats (flutters) take off up into the trees swirling and vanishing into the sides. A fluttering sound comes up and you watch as a familiar sight, an odd gray dappled white owl-like creature with a long, thin beak and black beady eyes, it's Mr. Nesbitt, flies up and goes, "Oh, I heard you were here. Oh my." 
ASHLEY: Mr. Nesbitt. 
MATT: "(laughs) Fearne, it's so good to see you." 
ASHLEY: Oh, it's great to see you. You know, Birdie. Right? 
MATT: "Of course, of course." 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
MATT: "I've been keeping up a bit. I wasn't aware." 
ASHLEY: How are you? 
MATT: "Oh, you know, just doing a little here and there, wandering around, picking flowers, eating small insects, and sort of, you know, keeping the place tidy." 
ASHLEY: Great. Wonderful. I am here with all of my friends and so we're going to be staying for a little bit. 
MATT: "Wonderful. Wonderful." 
ASHLEY: Probably not too long. 
MATT: "Do you have games to play?" 
ASHLEY: Oh, yes. We have games to play. Oh, and I think FCG and Nana are planning a scavenger hunt. 
MATT: "No way!" 
ASHLEY: Yes. So you might, maybe be a part of it. 
MATT: "I'm so excited!" 
ASHLEY: Talk to Nana about it. 
MATT: "Oh! Goodness me. (giggles) Well, you both look like you are a bit in a personal conversation. I'll let you be, but I just, it's good to see you, Fearne. We'll catch up later on." 
ASHLEY: Okay. Kisses. 
MATT: "Bye, Birdie." 
ASHLEY: Bye. 
MATT: "Whoo!" (laughs) (flutters) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: Birdie, just "(sighs)." 
LAURA: What is it? 
MATT: "I don't dislike Dr. Nesbitt. He's just a lot." (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yes, I agree. He's a lot. He's a lot. 
MATT: "First thing in the morning, especially it's a lot right in your face." 
ASHLEY: Oh my god, I would never. Yeah. Always in the morning. I'm just, give me a little bit of time. 
MATT: "Yeah, yeah. Anyway, almost there." 
ASHLEY: Um. So. (laughs nervously) Um. What is it? 
MATT and LAURA: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: I mean, if you don't want to talk about it right now, we don't have to. 
MATT: "No, no. I think it's important we talk about it. Here we go." You finish the ascent as you step out into the upper canopy of the tree and emerge into the top garden that sits between the various heavy tangled branches and leaves and vines all around. You see all the massive archways and the beautiful bushes and long clusters of flower beds and a hedge maze type appearance to it at different heights and levels. Colorful arrays of flora completely encompass the surrounding space. The ever twilight vibe of the space is offset by the occasional flicker of glowing firefly light that dots the landscape. You see the numerous topiaries that are well kept that all have oddly screaming humanoid shapes frozen in place. Your mother pulls you over to one of the central benches in one of the nicer open garden areas with this little fountain that's just giving this gentle sound of trickling water. She brings you down and sits across from you and takes your hands in hers. She brushes off a bit and scratches behind her ear for a second, nervously. 
ASHLEY: I missed it here. 
MATT: "Well, I think it's missed you, too. So, Fearne-- You may not know exactly how your father and I met, but know that it is the happiest happenstance that I hold dear to myself beyond having you. He's a good man in his own morals and he's driven by personal justice. I've met no man greater than him. We met because your Ollie and I, we were both briefly entangled with the Unseelie Court many years back. Ollie was a prisoner of theirs." 
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: "And myself, I was once enthralled by the wiles of one among their court." 
ASHLEY: Wait, what does that mean? 
MATT: "This particular gentleman of whom I was romantically entangled with." 
LAURA: (gasps) 
ASHLEY: Oh, oh, oh. 
MATT: "Promised much and delighted in my darker impulses. I was whisked away into the arms of this dark lover who danced with me atop a gloomed marble precipice, he waxed poetic about taking the moon from the Moonweaver herself for me. I mean, he was as beautiful as he was terrifying." 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
MATT: "And that for me, at that time, it's what I thought I wanted." 
ASHLEY: Sure. 
MATT: "I'm different now. I've learned from my wanderings and I know that happiness did not lie down that path for me. But, in this time, I was in a very odd place, Fearne." 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: "I do not like who I was then." 
ASHLEY: Huh. 
MATT: "Well, it was here that I met your father, Ollie. He was being held captive for his double dealings with the court. At first, I delighted in teasing him while he was being held in the Underbrush Prison. Something about his strength of heart and his honest eyes, they slowly began to take hold of me over time. His kindness in the face of veiled malice around me began to shake me free of whatever spell kept me there for so long. But not before I was already with child." 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
MATT: "With you." 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
MATT: "My Unseelie suitor and sire of my child whispered of the import of our union. When it was time, he brought me to a hilltop in Exandria to give birth to you under the red light of the moon Ruidus. Just as he had planned and we had discussed." 
ASHLEY: Um. So-- (laughs uncertainly) You were with child with Ollie or, am I-- I'm not under-- what? 
MATT: "Ollie is your father, but in the sense that he chose to raise you as your father." 
ASHLEY: Well, neither of you really chose to raise me because you weren't around. 
MATT: "Sorry." 
ASHLEY: That's okay. That's okay. So, all right, so I have another dad. 
MATT: "You have someone who helped give you life, yes. I don't know if I'd call them a father." 
ASHLEY: Okay, how do I? Who? 
MATT: "The one who sired you. His name is Athion. Athion Zathuda. The Sorrowlord of the Unseelie Court." 
ASHLEY: Say that one more time. 
MATT: "The Sorrowlord of the Unseelie Court." 
LAURA: Wait! 
SAM: We've heard that. 
LAURA: Is that the one we fought? Is that the one that showed up? 
SAM: We've heard that. 
MARISHA: The Sorrowlord? 
LIAM: Did have the word sorrow. 
SAM: Sorrowlord Zathuda is who we-- 
LAURA: That's who we fought. 
TRAVIS: But this is Athion. 
LAURA: That's who chased us. 
LIAM: But we're not here. 
LAURA: I know. 
SAM: Athion? 
LIAM: Her and her mom. 
MATT: Athion Zathuda. 
SAM: Can I get a last name? 
MARISHA and LAURA: Zathuda? 
TRAVIS: Zathuda. 
MATT: Zathuda. 
LAURA: Zathuda! 
SAM: Sorrowlord Zathuda. 
LAURA: That's the one that chased us from the-- 
MATT: That's the one that fought Morrigan on that dragon in the sky. 
LAURA: Yeah. Yeah. 
MARISHA: Oh shit! 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah! 
ASHLEY: Shit! 
MARISHA: On the dragon. Wait. 
MATT: The one that was talking with Otohan at the site of the other Key. 
LAURA: The what? 
MATT: The one who was speaking with Otohan. 
ASHLEY: (gasps) 
MARISHA: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: Okay. Athion Zathuda. The Sorrowlord of the-- 
MATT: "Unseelie Court." 
ASHLEY: Unseelie Court. Okay. Um. Boy, this is-- 
MARISHA: Oh yeah, Sorrowlord Zathuda. 
MATT: "I know it's a lot." 
LAURA: Oh my gosh! 
MATT: "It's a lot to take in." 
ASHLEY: Sure. So he knows about me? 
MATT: "He does." 
ASHLEY: How come he didn't come around? 
MATT: "Well, you see, after you arrived... As a Ruidusborn by design, it seemed my usefulness began to wane. Whatever affection I held for him faded along with his attention towards me. He seemed to have what he wanted in you. All of his playful aspirations of overthrowing the Moonweaver came to a crisp and deadly halt. And his meetings with this Exandrian high magus were somehow connected. You were always seemingly part of this. So I realized I had been used this whole time, and for the first time in ages, my mind felt clear. I felt like I had pushed the clouds away, you know?" 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah. 
MATT: "And I had to leave. The only one there that I held any trust towards was the one who showed me real kindness. It was Oleander. So I told him everything and he just smiled. He promised he'd keep me safe and help keep you safe. I think that was the first time I really felt an inkling of real love. I helped break him free. Together, we fled from the Twilight Citadel, and swore to never look back. And he became your father. Together, we lived free on the hidden paths between the courts to be a family for a while, for your younger years. It wasn't until you'd gotten a bit older that we began to see that red moon specter here in the Fey Realm for the first time, just like the night you were born. Ollie had that vision, that terrible vision of everything just falling apart. We were worried that this thing that we thought we had gotten you away from, you were somehow still caught up in. So we did what any parent would do. We did all we could to try and keep you safe. We went back to the Unseelie and we saw what they were building. We saw they were still, they were definitely the ones responsible for all this. We just knew that you were a piece of that puzzle. So we snuck in and, with Ira's help, we took the crown, and we left you with Morri because we knew that they'd come after us. Because we knew that he'd be looking for you for whatever reasons they had. So we set out to find a way to correct your mother's unwitting part in all this and free you from their designs. And it seems like we failed. But you... You became something even greater than we ever could be. I'm so sorry for-- I'm so sorry for not being around. It doesn't mean much, I know, but we both love you so much. Everything we did was because we loved you. And it hurt, it hurt to leave you. But we knew you weren't safe with us. And-- We would rather give it all up again to see you safe. Like Morri said, perhaps this was the right path. And we are far from perfect. We've messed up in many, many ways, I'm sure. But we did the best we could, circumstances what they are. If anything, we're just proud to see who you've become. Someone who stands above others who wish to use them and carves your own way. Don't even let Nana Morri's talk affect your fate at all. I can see that darkness that your sire left in you, but you wear it well and you make it your own." 
ASHLEY: It's okay. I-- I understand why you both had to do what you had to do. Honestly, I loved growing up here, and I love Nana Morri. I mean, she's a little wild. Like, yeah she's super weird, but-- I love her a lot. 
MATT: "Me too." 
ASHLEY: I feel like you put me in a really good place. Well, do I stay away from him? I don't know what I should do. Do I just, don't talk about that and don't tell anybody, yeah? 
MATT: "I mean, it's your life to live how you see fit. If anything, I think it will be a relief on your father to know that you know now." 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: "I mean, Zathuda is a very dangerous and extremely selfish and manipulative individual, and seems to have found--" 
ASHLEY: I wouldn't know about any of those qualities. 
MATT: "I think the difference is, you've got a better heart in that chest of yours." 
ASHLEY: Well, we'll see. (laughs) 
MATT: "No, you do. The fact that you're here says that you do. The fact that these people gather around you says that you do." 
ASHLEY: Hmm. 
MATT: "The fact that you're doing everything you can to do the right thing to protect and help people, that's more than any of us could have done. Far more than your-- than the Sorrowlord would have ever, ever even attempted." 
ASHLEY: Thanks. 
MATT: "I don't ever want you to think that I'm asking for forgiveness. That's not something I could ever ask for. All I can do is try my best to make it up to you in time." 
ASHLEY: I'll take that. I'll take that. Hopefully, we have lots more time to do that. 
MATT: "I hope so, too." 
ASHLEY: Well, thank you for being honest with me. 
MATT: "I'm sorry I took this long to tell you. It was all with the intent of trying to keep you safe as long as we could." 
ASHLEY: (sighs) Well. I guess I better get back down there and make sure everybody's okay. But, thanks for talking with me. 
MATT: "Thank you for listening." 
ASHLEY: I give her a big hug. 
MATT: She hugs you back and you can hear her sniffle and wipe a tear from her face. 
ASHLEY: You know, I always did wonder why I was so much taller than you both. 
MATT: "Yeah." 
ASHLEY: That always really weirded me out. So now that makes sense. 
MATT: "Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of things I think that will be clicking after this, I'm sure." 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Lots of things I'm like, oh, okay. 
MATT: "Yeah, yeah. You got some-- You're quite a living nexus of a bunch of weird shit." 
ASHLEY: (sighs) 
MATT: "And I include myself in that. (laughs)" 
ASHLEY: Well yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "Oh, I'm going to go find Sweet Pea--" 
LAURA: Hum-ina. 
MATT: "-- and give him his dinner. 
MARISHA: Hum-ina. 
ASHLEY: Okay. I'll find Sweet Pea in a little bit, too. 
MATT: "All right. I love you." 
ASHLEY: I love you. 
MATT: "(sighs)" She bounds off-- 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MATT: -- into the garden. 
ASHLEY: All right. Well, I will head back downstairs. 
MATT: Okay, in the interim-- 
LIAM: I think, while all that had happened, so maybe simultaneously, Orym would have walked up and tugged at Ashton's elbow. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
TALIESIN: I am-- 
TRAVIS: Falls off. 
TALIESIN: The bar's a little crowded, so I would have gotten a drink and would be sitting off-- 
MARISHA: Wrong arm, wrong arm. 
TALIESIN: -- just breathing, taking a view, and having a little liquor. 
LIAM: Hey. 
TALIESIN: Hey. 
LIAM: You want to take a walk? 
TALIESIN: You're not going to quietly kill me in the wild lands, are you? I mean, I'm fine either way. I might be able to take you. It would be interesting to see. 
LIAM: Take a walk with me, Ashton. 
TALIESIN: I'm taking one last good look. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: All right, I'm ready. (laughter) 
LIAM: I'm not going to lead us too far away, because I assume that most things around here can eat me. So, I'll stay close to the manor. 
MATT: Okay. Do you head down towards the base of the tree? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: All right, great. So you wander down a bit further into the area that's referred to as the Undermuck. It's all these massive mud pits that seep into and between the gargantuan roots that spiral out from the center of the tree. It's like a series of sections of separated bog that swarm around the base. As you descend the staircase that lead to the bottom you can hear the (thick bubbling) of the muck of these various bogs occasionally bubbling up. That ever so faintly sweet, but fetid smell of mud with some earthen minerals and decaying leaves and moss. Occasionally, you see things (slick sliding) slithering through the mud. But it's also oddly beautiful, as you can see all these tranquil, green turquoise fireflies are beginning to light up the space in sections, like they're communicating in clusters at different points throughout. 
LIAM: I'll sit on a root of the tree and drink from the cup that's probably a little too big for my frame. I realize that I didn't say a lot yesterday. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I appreciate it, to be honest. 
LIAM: Yeah. Well, I've just been thinking. It doesn't really serve to blurt the first thing that pops into your head out, I've learned in life. To be honest, Ash, I'm-- I was as freaked out as everybody else by what happened. But that's not what I want to say to you right now. I just want you to feel what you're going to feel. Be angry, be sad, be confused, be questioning. Guilt, shame, whatever. But, we do care about you. I care about you. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. I think I believe that from everybody. I'm working on it. 
LIAM: Well, time, right? 
TALIESIN: This is new territory for me. 
LIAM: Well, look, whatever you're going to feel, you know, we're all going through it. I get it. To a degree, I do. You and your dad, and Imogen and her mom, and me with everything I carry around, right? It's hard not to let it be personal. Of course it's personal. But, we can't let this be about our every little hidden heartbreak right now. 
TALIESIN: No. I mean, I'll admit, the positive reinforcement after jumping into a pool of lava may have been-- I'm not going to put that on anybody, I would have done the same. But it definitely-- I can see the escalation the more I think about it. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: If that hadn't worked, I'm sure they would have been taking me apart pretty much the way that-- I wonder, if this had worked, what the fuck would anybody have said after 10 minutes of: Holy fuck, that was stupid. 
LIAM: Ash, I listened to everybody lay into you yesterday and that's not what this is about. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, I know. 
LIAM: I-- I care about you. With everything that's coming, you know, feel what you're going to feel, but also don't let perfect be the enemy of good. 
TALIESIN: (laughs) 
LIAM: This group, as fucked as it is, this is the play. This is the angle. There are no legends coming in to save us. It's just us. And we got to pick up and do. Tomorrow or a day after, whenever we leave, it's going to be hard and I don't expect you to stop, I certainly don't. But try not to spend all your time grappling with your demons, because I need your hands free so you can pick up that hammer and fight. 
TALIESIN: (sighs) 
LIAM: I'll stand shoulder to shoulder with you. Well, more like by your hip, but you get the idea. 
TALIESIN: We'll make it work. I-- Yeah, it was something, actually. I don't know, it was actually something Chetney said a couple days ago, or a day ago. God, it's been so long. He really gave me the option: Fuck right off or don't. His vote at the time was fuck right off. And, I don't know, I thought about it, and I thought about the last time everybody fucked right off and I didn't. 
LIAM: You would never fuck off. 
TALIESIN: No, I don't think I have it in me. 
LIAM: As stony as your exterior is, you really got a soft heart. 
TALIESIN: Thank you. I hope that people have less opportunity to see it literally on the outside, but yeah. I do really like these people. I like them a lot. I don't-- I mean, I don't really know what love really is, but-- I don't know what family is. 
LIAM: Know one thing. 
TALIESIN: But-- 
LIAM: Well, I know you mean well. Lift me up. 
TALIESIN: Yep. Oh, the new arm is weird, (groans). 
LIAM: I give him a kiss on his forehead. I don't what's out there, but with the seven of us, it's going to be okay. 
TALIESIN: I give him probably too much of a hug up here. 
LIAM: I lower down and I do three quick pull-ups on his arm and then drop. (laughter) 
LIAM: Come on, let's go have a party. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. I may say a few things in there, and I'm not going to need you to back me up. I've been thinking about this a lot. I've been thinking about what I'm doing here and what we're all doing here. I don't know, I think I know what I'm going to offer and I think I know what I'm going to ask of everybody. I think I've figured it out. 
LIAM: Okay. I grab him by the pinky. 
TALIESIN: Yep, let's go. 
MATT: (Allura) "You know, I never quite understood the impulse to add almond liqueur to a very fine drink. But in this context, it's actually quite delicious." 
LAURA: It's a good drink. 
MARISHA: It's good for tropical drinks. 
SAM: What do you normally drink? Sherry and stuff? 
MATT: "I'm more of a red wine girl, honestly. Kima's the bar drink enthusiast." 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "But on special occasions I've been known to throw back a few, if you will." 
TRAVIS: Whoa, watch out now. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Allura. 
MATT: "Yes?" 
MARISHA: Are you going to join us on our little team building scavenger hunt? 
MATT: "No, why?" 
MARISHA: Oh. 
MATT: "Goodness." (laughs) 
MARISHA: All right. 
LAURA: Why not? 
MATT: "I'm-- (laughs) With all due respect, your team really needs the focus. I'm more here as emotional support beyond that, as well as your ride, so." 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah. You're not here on research for the arcanum philosophix-lees? What's the thing you're apart of? 
MATT: "I'm always in the process of researching for the Arcana Pansophical." 
TRAVIS: Oh! Pansophical! 
MARISHA: Yes, yes. 
TRAVIS: Sorry, I got twisted. You're not going to go out on any, you know, expeditions or top secret, I mean, you could tell, stuff? 
MATT: She looks towards you and her eyes flare a faint blue and suddenly you see these runes begin to swirl in the air around you. You see numerous arcane orbs suddenly apparate in various parts of the tree. They all shift and look towards you, and you look away, and everything vanishes around, her eyes fade. "I'm continuously multi-tasking. So while I'm here conversing with you, I also have many other endeavors I'm focusing on. So I apologize if I seem a bit flighty at times, but I'm doing a lot." 
TRAVIS: That would not have been my criticism, but I have to say that was the dopest flex I've seen in a minute. I am massively impressed. Enjoy your drink. I'm a little aroused. 
MATT: (slurping) 
MARISHA: You're always aroused. 
LAURA: He's always a little aroused. 
MATT: "I assumed that was the case. I took no offense." 
MARISHA: Allura. 
MATT: "Mm-hmm?" 
MARISHA: In your past adventuring days with your adventuring party, did you ever have a moment like what we're going through where you were a bit, not on the same wavelength? 
MATT: She smiles and her vision goes thousand-yard stare for a moment. Her expression looks like it's simultaneously recalling fond memories and painful ones. You see the wrinkles in the corner of her eyes fold tighter. "It's been some time, but of course. Any group of people that care about each other goes through a similar, multiple, similar circumstances. Whether it be something someone said, someone did, something you've lost. In our instance, someone we lost. And-- I certainly hope that you and your compatriots can find that common tether that keeps you together. We weren't quite as lucky. But through that fracturing, I kept my friend. Who became my partner. And is now my…little lion. So. Even in challenged, fracturing of friendships there is good to be found. But it doesn't have to even get that way. The fact that you're all here and taking this seriously says a lot about you. I've watched many, many individuals with similar ideals and visions of grandeur who have never gotten as far as you have and would have shattered at first sign of any sort of difficulty. So if I have anything to offer, it's the hope that you embrace this moment that you have and don't fuck it up." 
LAURA: I think I should stop wearing the circlet. 
MARISHA: Why? 
LAURA: I'm going to take it off. 
MATT: Okay. You've had it on for so long that even removing it, it's like the familiar static that ever persisted around you is twice as loud before it eventually fades into that familiar perpetual noise. 
MARISHA: It brought you so much respite, Imogen. 
LAURA: I know. But it also-- I feel like if I hadn't been wearing it, I would've known what Ashton was planning. And I know that's an invasion, but-- One of my strengths is knowing. You know what I mean? I didn't know where you went. I didn't know you were planning to run off. I didn't know Ashton was planning something secret with Fearne. Why would I take away a strength? 
MARISHA: I'm sorry, I did not mean to scare you, and I hope you do not feel responsible for Ashton's actions. 
LAURA: Of course not. 
MARISHA: It's not on you. You shouldn't have to be responsible for babysitting everyone. 
LAURA: And I don't! 
MARISHA: Their choices. 
LAURA: I don't feel that way. I don't feel that way. But I do feel a responsibility to everyone here. I think we all feel a responsibility to each other, and we should. 
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: Even Chet. 
TRAVIS: Imogen. 
LAURA: What, Chet? 
TRAVIS: What am I thinking? 
LAURA: You're thinking about having sex! 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: When you say that word, it doesn't sound the way I say it. (laughter) 
ASHLEY and LIAM: (exaggerated Imogen) Sex! (laughter) 
MARISHA: Well, you know, I, of course, think you're extremely powerful and extremely capable. So, you know, if you want to embrace this sometimes gift and sometimes curse, you have my support. 
LAURA: I appreciate that. You know a little bit about it. 
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: It's about this moment that Fearne, you return from the garden. FCG's been gone for a bit with Nana Morri. (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah. Oh god! 
LAURA: Oh yeah, you said something. 
SAM: I wasn't there. 
LAURA: That's fine. You were just thinking it. 
SAM: That was the wind. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: What do you say, Fearne? Are you ready for these witches to be in their full bitches state? (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yes. Yes! It's what I've always wanted. 
MARISHA: Yes. Maybe embracing-- 
ASHLEY: Full bitch. 
MARISHA: -- our strengths. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
MARISHA: No matter how controversial they may be. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: I would love to have a conversation-- 
MARISHA: Oh! 
ASHLEY: -- with everybody. If they would like to hear some things, I have some things that I would like to say. 
LAURA: I want to hear them. 
ASHLEY: Yeah? 
MARISHA: Should we gather FCG? 
ASHLEY: Maybe, maybe, maybe. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Can we see Nana Morri with FCG? 
MATT: No, they vanished into the shadows of the tree. They've been gone for quite a bit. We'll say for the purpose of narrative brevity, eventually you hear this scratching, clattering sound, and you watch as a shape seems to move with unnatural speed (chittering steps) along the tree, and then emerging from around a shadowed corner is Nana Morri and FCG. You have emotional memory of having a conversation, some of it excited, some of it concerned. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LIAM: (laughs) 
MATT: But no actual confirmed memory. It's like someone just snipped that section out of your timeline. 
LIAM: Oh yeah. 
SAM: Smiley day to you. 
LAURA: Hey. 
ASHLEY: Hey. 
LAURA: How'd it go? 
MARISHA: Oh! We were just about to call out for you. 
LIAM: Did you map out our team building exercise? 
MATT: "Oh, we very much did. I think you're all going to be extremely excited about what we've plotted together." 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
SAM: I don't quite remember the details, but I'm sure it's some yoga and maybe one of those things where you-- 
TRAVIS: I fucking hate yoga. 
SAM: -- you take the balloon, and you say-- 
LIAM: Goat yoga? 
LAURA: Oh, and you-- (blows) 
SAM: Yeah, you blow it to the next person. 
LAURA: (mumbling) you have to turn and suck and blow. 
MARISHA: Suck and blow? 
LAURA: Suck and blow! 
SAM: Suck and blow. 
ASHLEY and LAURA: Suck and blow. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
SAM: And maybe just some of them fun-- 
LIAM: Suck and blow. Seems right. 
SAM: You say your name and the same letter as your name, you say, you know, your favorite food or something. 
LAURA: Banana-fana-fo-fana. 
SAM: Yeah, that kind of stuff, right? 
MATT: (Morri 2) "No!" (laughter) 
MATT: A voice growls from the chest. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Oh, thank fuck. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Oh, oh, she gave you a little snippy snips. 
SAM: Maybe? (laughter) 
LIAM: What are your thoughts on Zip Zap Zop? (laughter) 
MATT: (Morri 1) "There are three key tenets to reforging the cracks in your bonds." 
TRAVIS: Oh my god, I'm dying. 
SAM: I remember this part. Communication. 
MATT: "Communication." 
SAM: Trust. 
MATT: "Trust." 
SAM: And honesty. 
MATT: "And honesty." 
TRAVIS: Why the fuck did y'all do that? 
SAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: How did you do that? 
LIAM: (laughs) 
SAM: I remember that. 
TRAVIS: What? 
LAURA: Oh, we should write that down. That seems really important. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, that seems really important. 
TRAVIS: That's some Magic Castle bullshit. 
LAURA: If they said it at the same time, it's important. 
TRAVIS: Honest, trust and-- No, communication. 
LAURA: Communication, trust, and honesty. 
MARISHA: Communication. 
LIAM: We're just like idiots writing those three words. 
LAURA: Trust! 
SAM: You guys are literally just writing down-- 
TRAVIS: How-- 
ASHLEY: I know. (laughter) 
MARISHA: But they might be cues, or clues! 
LAURA: It feels important! 
LIAM: They just did four seconds of improv in front of us, and we're like-- (frantic writing) (laughter) 
MATT: "So together, me and your wondrously emotionally available companion have plotted a series of unique scavenger hunt and team building exercises to help get you all back as a strong team to tackle your responsibilities ahead." (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Wonderful. 
LIAM: Is that now? 
TALIESIN: I was not excited, but now I am. 
LIAM: Or in the morning? 
SAM: I don't remember. (laughs) 
MARISHA: Wait, Fearne was about to tell us something. We're not starting now? 
ASHLEY: When do we start? 
MATT: "Whenever you're ready." 
LAURA: Oh, all right. 
MATT: "Just let me know." 
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay. 
MATT: "I'll get a drink." 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Can we say we took a short rest while some of these conversations were happening? 
MATT: Yeah, sure. 
LAURA: Ow! 
TRAVIS: Beautiful. 
SAM: Sure, why not? 
LAURA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: I took all that psychic damage. I'm fucked up. 
MATT: That's true. 
ASHLEY: Well-- 
LAURA: Fuck off, why don't you? 
ASHLEY: Maybe it'd be good for Nana to hear this, too. 
LIAM: That doesn't feel very good. 
LAURA: No! 
MATT: She still saunters off to the tiki bar. You can hear, as she's walking, her neck is craning a little bit back and to the left. 
ASHLEY: Back and to the left. 
SAM: Oh! 
MATT: To listen in. 
SAM: Too soon, Matt. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
MARISHA: She hears all. 
LAURA: What did you want to say? 
ASHLEY: All right, so I talked to Birdie, and she told me that Ollie's not my dad. 
LAURA: (murmured understanding) 
ASHLEY: Which, you know. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: There was something weird going on there, we knew. Then she told me that it's somebody named Zapruder. Hold on. 
LAURA: Zapruder? (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Athion Zathuda. 
TALIESIN: You heard "back and to the left" and Zapruder popped into your head. 
ASHLEY: Yes, that's why-- Sorry. 
MATT: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Shaky with the camera. 
LAURA: The Sorrowlord? 
ASHLEY: Zathuda the Sorrowlord. 
MARISHA: Oh! 
ASHLEY: So, like I thought, I am royalty. 
MARISHA: Oh! 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
MARISHA: Wait, that was your takeaway? 
ASHLEY: That was my takeaway. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LAURA: That's the guy we fought. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LAURA: That's the guy that chased us and caught Nana. 
ASHLEY: Yes, and tried to kill Nana Morri. 
LIAM: On the big weird dragon? 
ASHLEY: Hmm? 
LIAM: The one who rode on the big dragon? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
SAM: I'm trying to remember. What powers did he exhibit? 
TALIESIN: He was able to ride a dragon. 
LIAM: Dragon riding. 
SAM: Sure, sure, dragon rider. 
LIAM: That was the main. 
SAM: But was he throwing balls of fire or anything? 
ASHLEY: But the thing is-- 
MATT: Sammanar is the head of the Unseelie Court. 
TRAVIS: Oh, but he works for him? 
MATT: Sorrowlord Zathuda is-- 
LAURA: Oh, he's the-- 
LIAM: Sick head of hair. 
LAURA: Not the leader, okay. 
TRAVIS: I had that name down, I couldn't remember. 
ASHLEY: And Sammanar, I believe-- 
MATT: No worries. 
ASHLEY: -- is a part of the Arcana Pansophical? 
TRAVIS: No, I think the Arcana Pansophical identified him. 
MATT: Yes, they identified him. 
ASHLEY: They identified him. My bad. 
TALIESIN: Allura is Arcana Pansophical. 
ASHLEY: That's what I mean. 
LAURA: So-- Oh my gosh. 
MATT: Correct. 
ASHLEY: I was reading a summary. 
TALIESIN: I know things. 
LAURA: So he's not a nice guy. 
LIAM: Well, he tried to kill us. 
LAURA: A very powerful not nice guy. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I don't know. 
TRAVIS: Let's not assume things just because his name is Sorrowlord. (laughs) 
LAURA and MARISHA: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: Yeah, maybe-- 
LIAM: He's just sad. 
LAURA: Maybe he's just a sad little emo guy. 
TALIESIN: I feel like the last two weeks, there's a very good reason to make some mild assumptions. I'm just trying to learn things right now. 
MARISHA: Don't forget, we also saw him conspiring with Otohan. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: And they mentioned something about a mission? 
LAURA: Oh my gosh! 
MARISHA: Yes, it was-- 
LAURA: Your dad probably knows my mom! 
ASHLEY: What if they're best friends? 
LAURA: What if they're dating? 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
LAURA: Oh my god, what if we're stepsisters? 
ASHLEY: Could you imagine if we were stepsisters? Oh my god, I love this actually. 
LAURA: That's so exciting. 
ASHLEY: This is amazing. 
LAURA: Aw! 
LIAM: We may have to kill them. 
ASHLEY: Oh. Well. 
LAURA: Well. 
MATT and TRAVIS: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: Oh my god, that's so true. (laughs) 
MATT: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: That is-- 
TRAVIS: (Valley girl) Sorry! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: That's something I forgot about. 
TRAVIS: Good and bad. 
TALIESIN: It's on the likelier end of things. 
TRAVIS: Okay, so your dad is Sorrowlord of the Unseelie Court, and he was on a mission on a dragon to try and do something to us to end your bloodline for the court. 
ASHLEY: Nana? 
LIAM: Well, we were sneaking into that fort, right? 
MARISHA: So what I recall from my photographic memory-- 
LIAM: What's a photograph? 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LAURA: A really good drawing. 
TALIESIN: A sketch. 
MARISHA: They were like-- Oh, he was Seminar? 
TRAVIS: Sammanar. 
SAM and MARISHA: Sammanar. 
LIAM: Sandal bar. 
TRAVIS: Who's the head of the Unseelie Court. 
TALIESIN: He wears a turtleneck. 
MARISHA: He sits at the end of his patience, and they wish to remove Ludinus from their plan. 
LAURA: (gasps) Oh! 
SAM: Oh! 
TRAVIS: Yeah, he was getting impatient with Ludinus. 
MARISHA: Impatient with Ludinus, and then Otohan-- (stammering "Ludinus") 
LAURA: ♪ (yodeling) ♪ (laughter) 
LIAM: ♪ He was a fey, just a lonely fey ♪ (laughter) 
MARISHA, LAURA, and LIAM: ♪ (yodeling) ♪ 
MARISHA: Yes. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: Otohan was then like-- (laughs) Was like: Oh, and when you step from the Moonweaver, you will be forgiven? 
TRAVIS: When the Moonweaver is removed. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
SAM: Who will be forgiven? 
LAURA: Oh! 
TRAVIS: Otohan was saying, when we pull down the Moonweaver, then-- Right? 
SAM: Then you will be forgiven, meaning Shadow, sorry, Sorrowlord will be forgiven? 
MARISHA: Maybe? 
TRAVIS: No, he was like, I think-- 
MARISHA: I'm trying to remember. 
SAM: Sorrowlord hates the Moonweaver. 
MARISHA: I don't know. It's been so long. 
TRAVIS: It read like once Ludinus completes his mission, the Moonweaver is pulled down as the first of the gods. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Then Sammanar will be pleased. But until that happens, he's pissed. 
MARISHA: Oh, yes. 
SAM: So the Unseelie Court hates the Moonweaver. 
LAURA: Yes. 
TRAVIS: At least. 
SAM: And so does the Sorrowlord. 
LAURA: Yes. 
LIAM: So maybe they're-- 
TRAVIS: At the behest of-- 
LIAM: They're taking it as specifically the Moonweaver. 
SAM: They hate the Moonweaver, and why they're in this. 
LAURA: ♪ They hate the Moonweaver. We hate it too. ♪ (laughter) 
SAM and LIAM: ♪ (yodeling) ♪ 
SAM: But they don't care for Ludinus. They just want the Moonweaver dead. 
MARISHA: Gone, yes. 
TRAVIS: For some reason. Or all the gods. 
MARISHA: And the Sorrowlord was like: Ooh, he's mad at me, and Otohan-- Yes, what Chet said. Otohan was like-- 
TRAVIS: We don't know anything about Sammanar. Salman-- 
LAURA: Salmonella. 
LIAM: Salmonella. 
MATT: Sammanar. 
TRAVIS: We don't know much about him, right? 
LIAM: Sammanar. 
TRAVIS: Ooh, Allura might. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm! 
ASHLEY: Yeah, Allura might. 
MARISHA: Also, I have written down that there was a rainbow void dog, and I wrote a quote. 
LAURA: Yeah, the rainbow void dog was the one with the void face that could suck you in. 
MARISHA: The void face, yes, and then there was-- 
LIAM: They were patrolling. 
MARISHA: "Invisibility you may have, but you can't hide from the Eremad?" 
LAURA: Yeah, that's-- 
ASHLEY: The Eremad is I think-- 
LIAM: It was a nursery rhyme. 
ASHLEY: -- the dog. 
MARISHA: Was about the dogs. 
LAURA: To the doggies. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Oh yeah, that's right. 
MARISHA: Oh, okay. Sorry-- Brain. Okay. 
LIAM: Are your memories color coded? 
MARISHA: Yes, they are. It's how I keep everything in check. All right, cool. Well, you know what? This also, I feel like, puts into perspective the whole Dusk AKA Yu coming and hunting us down thing, too. 
ASHLEY: Yes, it does. Yes, it does. 
LAURA: That's right. 
LIAM: That was a thing. 
ASHLEY: Hey, Nana. 
MATT: She finishes this long, slurping sound as the head looks away, and you realize the slurping is from the lower head. 
TRAVIS: (groans) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "Yes?" 
TRAVIS: Awesome. 
ASHLEY: So I talked with Birdie. 
LAURA: I go and cheers the-- 
MATT: (clink) "(belches darkly)" (laughter) 
MATT: "So, now you know." 
ASHLEY: Yes, I do. He was trying to kill you the last time we were here. 
MATT: "Well, I was trying to protect you." 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
LAURA: Did he know? 
MATT: "Oh, I assume he does. It's not the first time he's come for you." 
TRAVIS: He was there when you were born. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Under the moon. 
MATT: "He knows not to step into my realm. That's why your parents brought you here. One of the few places you're truly safe from Zathuda's clutches. You see, we're not friends." 
ASHLEY: What would he want to do with me? 
MATT: "Who knows? But I like you, and you're mine, so he can't have you." 
TRAVIS: Jesus. 
ASHLEY: Okay. I'm okay with that. 
MATT: "Good. (slurps)" 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: "(low belch)" 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: So, talk to me about Sammanar. What's the deal with Sammanar? 
MATT: "Oh, he's just a bit of a pissant, really." 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: "He's a strange one, works for the Potentate." Oh, no. Sammanar, not Zathuda. Sorry. 
ASHLEY: I mean, you can tell me about-- 
MATT: No, sorry. 
ASHLEY: -- Zathuda as well. 
MATT: "Sammanar is one of the five major archfey of the Fey Realm, keeper of the Sun's Shadow, master of the Unseelie Court. They are a moody entity, a rare sight out amongst the rest of the realms. They are the watcher of the twilight. They are the stiller of violent emotions. They are a bit of a prick." 
ASHLEY: Mm! What's the Sun's Shadow? They're just the keeper of the Sun's Shadow? What does that mean? 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Master. 
LAURA: Master of the Sun's Shadow, Keeper of the Court. 
MATT: Keeper of the Sun's Shadow. 
ASHLEY: Keeper of the Sun's Shadow, Master of the Unseelie Court. 
MATT: Correct. 
LAURA: Right. 
MATT: "They are the master of the realm where the shadow perpetually falls." 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
MATT: "It's a title. They love titles, these archfey. So many titles, they collect them like rotten fruits." 
TALIESIN: Where does the sun perpetually fall? 
SAM: Who collects rotten fruit? 
MARISHA: I don't know, actually. I was about to ask the same thing. 
LAURA: All right. 
SAM: And the dad-- 
LAURA: Zathuda. 
SAM: Zathuda, what do we know about him? Is he magical? Does he have powers? Where does he come from? Is he a fey? 
MATT: "He is a very powerful fey underneath the Potentate Sammanar themself. He is a brutal warlord, one who loves poetry and finds poetry in violence." 
ASHLEY: Oh! Oh. 
MARISHA: He's got a sensitive side. 
MATT: (laughs) 
SAM: Does he have any other kids? Like, do you have any other half-brothers or half-sisters? 
ASHLEY: I don't know. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "I do not believe he has bred beyond you, which is why he's been so annoyed that he couldn't step foot in my forest. He knows better." 
SAM: Would he want to kidnap her, or hang out with her, or take her to a park? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. What would he want to use her for? 
MATT: "I can only assume it might have something to do with this whole Red Moon mess." 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
MATT: "But he is well respected. He is broadly feared by those who care." 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: "He is known to be, by some standards, incredibly darkly handsome, which is why your mother--" 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
MATT: "-- was taken by him. It looks like someone got his good looks as well." 
ASHLEY: Not to brag. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "He is the Keeper of Dusk Hunger. The Blade of the Black Flame." 
SAM: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit. Say it again, Matt Mercer. Talk to me. 
SAM: Dusk Hunger? 
MATT: Dusk Hunger, the Blade of the Black Flame. 
ASHLEY: What? 
LAURA: That's awesome. We need that blade. 
ASHLEY: The Blade of the-- 
MATT and LAURA: Black Flame. 
TRAVIS: The Dusk. 
LAURA: (gasps) You need that sword! 
TRAVIS: What a fucking crazy-- 
ASHLEY: W-w-what am I going to do with the sword? 
LAURA: I don't know. But you need to hold it. 
ASHLEY: I'm not even strong enough for a sword. 
LAURA: You need to hold it and look cool-- 
MARISHA: But, but, wait a second-- 
LAURA: -- while you do it. 
MARISHA: Because you're, because you're, you're firey-- 
LAURA: (gasps) Oh my gosh. 
MARISHA: So what if that makes your fire all black?! 
LAURA: Oh my gosh. Wait, so that means you do-- Okay, Nana? 
MATT: "Yes?" 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LAURA: If she was extra, extra powerful-- 
MATT: "Mm-hmm?" 
LAURA: That would be good, right? 
SAM: (laughs) 
MATT: "I would be--" 
SAM: It's not bad. 
MATT: "-- extremely excited--" 
ASHLEY: I mean, it would be-- 
MATT: "-- at such a--" 
ASHLEY: -- fucking amazing. 
MATT: "Hmm?" 
ASHLEY: Hold on. Should we-- (whispers) Should we show Nana the... 
LAURA: Yeah. Oh, you think we should? 
SAM: Nana's the best, as far as I remember. 
ASHLEY: She's not going to take it. She's not going to take it. Well, I don't know if-- 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: -- she's going to take it or not. 
MARISHA: If you trust her. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MARISHA: But I should-- 
LAURA: Walk away. 
MARISHA: -- walk away. (laughs) I mean, I'll just go over here. 
TRAVIS: Not too far! 
MARISHA: How about-- So, just go to the corner and just stare in the corner. 
SAM: Like "Blair Witch Project?" 
MARISHA: Yes, for Blair. I'm Blair Witching, right. 
MATT: (laughs) 
LAURA: That's awesome. (laughs) 
ASHLEY: I found this thing that Ash over here took it in, and then, I guess-- 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: -- spitted it out. 
MATT: "That's new, I hadn't noticed." 
LAURA: (laughs) 
(laughter) 
MATT: (gentle glooping) Her whole fingers just wrap around your hand and curl across hers. "Fascinating." 
TALIESIN: Thank you. 
LAURA: Yeah. Their body rejected it. It was a little too much. 
LIAM: Yeah, so they sharded it out. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "That does happen with powerful magic sometimes. They don't tell you that in the upper lyceums. (chuckles)" 
ASHLEY: So, you can't pull it out? 
TRAVIS: You ready? Don't reach for it. It'll burn you. 
LAURA: Oh, I'll Mage Hand that shit. (whooshing) 
MATT: Okay. The spark arises out, the second form spark, similar in visage, but shape is fresher, less fractured and unique. As soon as it comes out, it floats in the air, the dark shape within her sockets, that bead of light that represents her eye suddenly begins to widen. That energy fills like that awe begins to wash over her face as her neck slowly cranes then stretching. "My goodness. What have you found? (sniffs) Oh, it also smells like you." 
LAURA: Oh. 
TALIESIN: It's the Shard of Ka'Mort, 
LAURA: Kind of. 
TALIESIN: The Empress-- Oh no, it's the Shard of Rau'shan, isn't it? Excuse me. Rau'shan the Emperor. 
LAURA: Yeah, Rau'shan and Ashton. 
TALIESIN: Who is apparently the Shard of Ka'Mort. Apparently. 
MATT: "So, here we stand between two remnants, vestigial artifacts of a war long lost. How fascinating. That explains you. Is there a purpose to this?" 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: "Do you need me to keep it safe?" 
TRAVIS: No! 
ASHLEY: No. We're supposed to suck it in. We have a contraption. 
SAM: ♪ Suck it in. Suck it in ♪ 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "Contraption? (laughs)" 
LAURA: Yeah. Have you ever seen something like this, actually? Can we pull it out? Because I feel like-- 
SAM: Who's got it? 
ASHLEY: Oh yeah, maybe 
LAURA: Yeah, you're right. 
ASHLEY: Maybe-- 
MATT: As you're doing this in the background, you see Allura with her drink going like-- Just looking nervous with each reveal. 
SAM: Not again. 
MATT: "I cannot say I've seen something like this, but I can-- I can take a guess at its purpose, given the context of our conversation. Interesting." 
LAURA: I believe Ludinus destroyed a great, many powerful fey beings with that. 
MATT: "Hungry goes the bastards of time." 
TRAVIS: Poetry. I know it well. (laughs) 
MATT: (laughs) "Well, congratulations on digging up aspects of the past. I imagine with the right applications these could be quite helpful. But these also will put a target on your back, the longer you carry it." 
LAURA: Mm. 
MARISHA: The sh-- The sh-- I'm in the corner. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Oh, sure. For sure it will. It's powerful. 
TALIESIN: The longer we could carry it, or the longer before we use it? 
MATT: "You tell me." 
ASHLEY: Yeah, all right. Well, we just want you to check it out. 
MATT: "Might I have a look?" 
ASHLEY: Yeah. She's not going to take it. Careful. 
LAURA: All right. I'll float it. 
MATT: Her long hands reach out and clasp it and you watch the flames spark and swirl through her fingers. She seems unbothered by the extreme heat, and you can hear the burn and crackled skin across this. She just pulls it in and looks at it, and you can see the light that emanates from it alights her face. Where you can see the sunken sockets where you assume the eyes are sunken in, there's no eyes. In fact, when the light from the crystal fills it in, you can just see it's just empty socket. 
LAURA: Like those void doggies? 
MATT: More or less. 
LAURA: Mm. 
MATT: But you don't even see the source of that light. That light seems to go away. It just looks like it's shining like a torch light on the inside of empty nothing. 
LIAM: It's another bowl of flesh. 
MATT: She just holds it in, and her tongue reaches out crisp and (hisses)-- 
SAM: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
MATT: "Ooh!" 
LAURA: In your head you hear: You sure she's not going to eat it? 
ASHLEY: No. (laughter) (laughter) 
MATT: You just see her poring over it like a child poring over a new toy. As she turns it about and smells it and looks into it. There's like an intoxication across her face as she inspects every square inch of it. You can hear a voice inside her chest go, (Morri 2) "(groans) Let me see." She's like, (Morri 1) "Wait, I'm not done." 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
SAM: We have a lot to do with that now, Morri. 
LAURA: We're hoping to give it to Fearne. Fearne. 
MATT: "See--" 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: "-- a bit of the old world." 
SAM: Old world? What do you mean? 
LAURA: It's the titans. 
MARISHA: Old as fuck. 
MATT: "This is rare, Fearne. This is rare indeed." 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: "You say there's a part inside you as well." 
TALIESIN: Yes. They did not get along well. 
MATT: "Maybe one day I'll get to look at that, too." 
TALIESIN: I'd be okay with that. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: So, what we were thinking, that is going to go into the harness and then into one of us. He exploded, because he tried to take both of them. 
MATT: "That explains the arm." 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
MATT: "(laughs)" 
ASHLEY: We were maybe thinking of having me do it, but I'm a little nervous about the dark side situation. 
MATT: "I can imagine. Especially after that." 
SAM: Knowing what you do-- 
TALIESIN: Before too. 
SAM: -- about your father now-- 
TALIESIN: Let's be fair. 
SAM: -- do you think that-- 
ASHLEY: Maybe it's a bad idea. 
SAM: Well, no. I mean, like, maybe it's a good-- Like, does her father have any sort of primordial anything? 
MATT: "Oh, the fey are removed from the Primordial structure. Those are opposite ends of the magical ancients." 
SAM: So there's nothing specifically in her bloodline that would make that bad? 
TALIESIN: This is literally the line of thinking that got me in trouble. I swear I'm going to shut up about it eventually, I'm just pointing it out. 
MATT: "Only one way to find that." 
SAM: Oh boy, that's what he said. (chuckling) 
TRAVIS: Yeah, no, we really need that back and we know-- I'm sure nobody watches your house, but just in case eyes are looking. 
MATT: "Hmm." 
TRAVIS: Yeah, there you go. Ah, thanks. (whooshing) 
MATT: "(deep inhale) (deep exhale)" 
LIAM: I feel like I've learned a little too much about Matt. 
MATT: You look in the back. Now you focus back behind her. Allura's drink is gone and Allura is just like this. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, like-- (laughter) 
TRAVIS: (gun cocking) (laughter) 
MATT: Her hands slowly go down to her sides. 
ASHLEY: Allura? 
MATT: "Yes. (chuckles)" 
ASHLEY: Are you familiar with any of these people that we're talking about? 
MATT: "I'm familiar with them in a academic sense, and some loose, distant encounters with some of their people. Not directly. I try not to go to the Fey Realm as often as possible. This whole place defies logic, and I prefer to live in a world of logic." 
ASHLEY: Yes, because I've found so much logic on the Material Plane, just so much. You all are so normal and everything goes as planned. 
MATT: "I'm sorry, I didn't mean it in an offensive way." 
ASHLEY: It's fine. 
MATT: "It's just a personal comfort." 
TRAVIS: Is there any reason why the Unseelie Court would have beef with the Moonweaver or want them removed? 
MATT: "I mean, there are a multitude of possibilities. Perhaps-- I mean, a realm like this in which the Moonweaver has quite a strong bit of influence, it's possible that a power vacuum would allow them to ascend, especially if it's under their own intentional design to upset the balance between the courts and--" 
TRAVIS: See, some of these spring chickens, they don't know as much about the Moonweaver as, mm-hmm. So maybe you could fill them in on what the Moonweaver's influence is in the Fey Realm. 
MATT: (scoffs) See, Nana Morri goes, "Well, if we're going to take to our event soon, I'll go ahead and start making some tea." In the meantime, Allura clusters up with the rest of you. "So the Moonweaver is the mostly good-aligned, if a bit chaotic in her influences, deity of moonlight and the autumn season. She's the patron of illusions, misdirection, associated with the lunar tides, and tied very strongly with the representation of Catha. Catha, of which while the moon is predominantly in Exandria's realm, Catha does-- its light does spread into this realm through the Moonweaver's connection, which is why Ruidus has not really connected to the Fey Realm until recent times. She overlooks things in secrecy and trickery, and is the patron of hidden trysts, and is very much considered to be a very positive entity for those who exist a bit outside the realms of civilization. She is worshiped by a number of fey in the realm. There are some even in the Unseelie Court." (laughter) 
LAURA: Jesus. 
TALIESIN: Really? It took you that long? (laughter) 
MATT: It's like I'm in the middle of concentrating on a scene. 
TALIESIN: No, carry on. Carry on. (laughter) 
MATT: "There are many who worship her here, predominantly in Seelie Court and some of the Unseelie, though privately. The Unseelie's intent to give into the violent and selfish impulses to a degree of harm, more so than the Seelie. The Seelie are not completely bereft of those impulses. But there are two sides to a similar coin, or a spectrum, you could say. In doing so, I imagine the Moonweaver has quite a few enemies. So that would make sense, though. I mean, up until recent events, who would think they could ever find some path to step up to one of the Primes. So, everything's a bit topsy-turvy, isn't it?" 
TRAVIS: So, a power vacuum, like more control, more power up for grabs in the Fey Realm. 
MATT: "That's the simplest answer. There may be more secret reasons I'm unaware of. The Fey Realm is not my specialty." 
TRAVIS: Can the archfeys or the Seelie Court move back in between the Fey Realm and the Material Plane as they choose? 
MATT: "The most powerful ones usually can. There are a number of permanent fey gates that combine or connect the two realms. Powerful archfeys basically protect and oversee those boundaries. The leaders of both courts often work together as much as they despise each other. It's a complicated political system. To essentially guide who can and cannot pass through those gates. If they choose to not want you to go, likely you can't, unless you can find some sort of roundabout means of escape. So drawing their attention can often lead to complications." 
TRAVIS: There's got to be some kind of a key in you or something. 
LAURA: I wonder. 
ASHLEY: Wait, so you can't leave the court? You have to-- The gate-- What did you say? I'm sorry. 
MATT: "If the court doesn't want you to leave, then you won't be able to use any of the gates they've built." 
ASHLEY: Well, how did Birdie and Ollie get out? 
MATT: "They apparently had managed to pull in a few favors," and she looks over in the direction of Nana Morri. "There are some entities here that muck up that balance, which is why they aren't really liked by either side. And your grandmother is quite a peach!" 
LIAM: Is Nana around in this moment? 
MATT: She's wandered off and is still in the far end of the chamber. 
LIAM: Can I ask you, Lady Allura, because I've only learned about Nana from Fearne. 
LAURA: (Nah-Nah) Nana. 
LIAM: What do you know about the Morrigan? 
MATT: "Well, what all I know is a series of stories and folklore, really. She's known by some to be a stalker of dreams, a voyeur of insecurity. Erm." 
MARISHA: What? 
MATT: "She is a promiser of many things and a robber of others. There are stories of her being an entity for balance. There are others that say she is a reaper of sadness. I am certain these stories are based in the perspectives of those who've had dealings with such entities as hers, and that can definitely color how history is written. But needless to say, she is largely considered in academic circles an extremely dubious and dangerous entity in the sense that there are few that can even attempt to ascertain her true intent or nature. I will say, this house is a bit homier than I expected, and outside of her... intense presence, I've been enjoying her hospitality and I'm a bit surprised at some facets of her lifestyle. That all being said--" 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MATT: "I've walked in other realms that were inviting, yet held sinister machinations beneath the surface. So please do not take offense if I am perpetually on my back foot." 
TALIESIN: Insight check. 
MATT: Yeah, make an insight check. 
TALIESIN: Natural 20. 
SAM: Ooh! 
LAURA: Wow! 
TALIESIN: How much sugarcoating just went down? How much, "Oh god--" compared to, "I am in the realm of someone who is going to," I don't know... Ursula to the, not the good witch of the southeast, but the reasonable witch of the southeast. Just so there's like, "She's fine, I guess." 
TRAVIS: Yeah, that was-- 
TALIESIN: I went for it. 
MATT: Yeah. What's your total there? 
TALIESIN: 21. 
MATT: 21? 
LIAM and LAURA: Ooh. 
ASHLEY: Ooh, a whisper. 
SAM: These teas and coffees of various-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah, they're wafting up and it smells so good. 
LAURA: I know! 
SAM: Various characters of the Mighty Nein. 
LAURA: They smell so good. 
TRAVIS: Just add water. 
SAM: Just add hot water. 
MARISHA: Just add to the bag. 
TRAVIS: I don't think that's right. I don't think that's right. 
MARISHA: Shake. 
SAM: The teas come in sachets. 
TRAVIS: Don't add it to the bag either. 
SAM: It's not loose, it's sachets. 
TRAVIS: Y'all, me and Travis have boxes of samples. 
TALIESIN: I appreciate-- The slight static shock-- 
LIAM: And we're back. 
MATT: That was great. 
TALIESIN: That was really nice. 
MATT: The best kisses give a little spark. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, it's just woop! Woke me up. 
TRAVIS: A little static shock? 
TALIESIN: A little, yeah, just a little bop. 
MATT: Whenever I tongue someone's ear, it's just (small shock). 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LIAM: Oh, I know it. 
ASHLEY: A little wet willy. (laughter) 
LAURA: Well, all that said, this should be quite an interesting scavenger hunt. 
SAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: Yes. I am getting excited. 
TRAVIS: Look how excited FCG is. 
SAM: Yeah, yeah. (hisses) 
LAURA: Something interesting happened. 
TALIESIN: I've never seen you do that. 
TRAVIS: Like a Munsters episode. 
SAM: Uh-huh. 
MATT: You smell it in the air, there's this fruity aroma, that's beginning to fill the space. You watch as a number of critters are beginning to emerge from nearby branches. You see insects and fireflies and little marsupial-like creatures with multiple arms are crawling out of the shadows and all gathering in the main living room chamber where Nana is currently hunched over a tea kettle that's currently about to boil over. You can hear the whistle beginning to widen louder and louder and louder before her voice goes, "Ah, it seems it's time for tea. Come, sit, and we'll discuss your, um, therapeutic sessions." 
LIAM: Laudna is so excited she's still facing the corner, but her head has turned 180 degrees. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: (screams) (cracks) (laughter) 
ASHLEY: "Death Becomes Her." 
TRAVIS: Now a warning? 
ASHLEY: Now a warning? 
MATT: You all gather. 
LAURA: Yes! 
TALIESIN: Yes. 
SAM: We gather. 
MATT: Furniture-- You look over in the room and there's furniture here that wasn't there last time you looked. There's a series of benches and chairs that are all arranged around the central table. You didn't hear anything shift, they're just there, and you're like, "Okay." 
ASHLEY: I love it here. 
MATT: She turns around and sets down this long platter of, it looks like a painted porcelain, with all manner of unique winding shapes. You watch as she moves, the light seems to catch and it's like the shapes shift as she steps with it and sets it down. There are a number of these tea cups set around and she begins to pour it in and the smell is like a beautiful passion fruit, sweet, fruity tea. She pours into the different cups. "Now, friends. Three items have been chosen for this. At the end of each of these endeavors, one of these items could be yours from my collection. 
LAURA: Magic items?! 
ASHLEY: (gasps) That's from Nana's collection! Are you kidding me? 
LAURA: Oh, that's exciting! 
ASHLEY: Do you even know how much stuff is in there? 
SAM: I did, but she made me forget. (laughter) 
MATT: "Succeed and not only have you grown stronger as friends and compatriots, but you get to claim my item. Fail, and you know what you have to work on. Please, drink up." 
SAM: Oh, Nana, I don't typically drink beverages. Will this still-- 
MATT: "Drink it." 
SAM: It will work? Okay. I'll pour it down my throat passage. 
MATT: You hear it splash on the inside like a canteen. 
MARISHA: This is the first step. 
LAURA: This is the first step is all of us are drinking. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
SAM: Trust, trust, trust. 
TALIESIN: That's a very easy item to require. 
LIAM: (gobbling) 
MATT: "Now, you see, I've reached out and spoken "with the various spirits of the surrounding spaces, and they've agreed to adjust things "to meet our requirements. So these will be uniquely tailored to what you need. As we discussed. (laughs)" 
LAURA: Just like you talked about. 
SAM: I think so. 
MATT: "Good. "Are we all ready for the first endeavor?" 
TRAVIS: Ready as we'll ever be. 
LAURA: Let's do it. 
SAM: Come on, come on! 
ASHLEY: We're communicating and we all agree. 
TRAVIS: Everyone took a short rest that needed it. 
LAURA: We're all about communication! 
MARISHA: So, communication. Are these in order? (stammering) Am I overthinking it? 
SAM: We're going to figure this out together. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
SAM: Bells Hells. 
MATT: "Which--" 
ASHLEY and LAURA: Bells Hells. 
MATT: "-- would you like first? Communication, trust, or honesty." 
TRAVIS: Oh boy. 
ASHLEY: Oh gosh, I have to pee. 
MARISHA: It feels like we should work up to trust. So maybe we start-- 
LIAM: Honesty-- 
LAURA: -- with honesty. 
LIAM: -- leads to communication. 
LAURA: Yeah, let's start with honesty. 
LIAM: Through that, we build trust. 
LAURA: I feel like we can tell the truth. 
MARISHA: Yes! 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: But alphabetically. 
LIAM: Yes, my fingers are moving in a really weird way. 
MARISHA: All right, so honesty? 
TRAVIS and LAURA: Honesty. 
MATT: "Very well." She puts her hands out and breathes in heavy, and the secondary mouth in her chest opens up, and as it does "(gasping)" smoke billows forth and fills the room around you. It swirls around, you hear Allura go, "Um, uh, wait, what's going--?" The smoke fills the entire vicinity of the chamber. The temperature drops suddenly, and as the smoke just as quickly as it swirled around you begins to subside, you feel the breeze catching your skin. As it fades, you're no longer inside the Ligament Manor, instead-- 
LIAM: Well. 
MATT: Now you stand in the dense thickness of a Fey jungle surrounded by all manner of beautiful purple and red trees that intertwine and twist. You can see crystals growing like the sap that had slowly dripped and formed into these light sacs that cause these little bursts of glowing color throughout the boughs above. You look above at the beauty, and look down as you are at the precipice of a chasm. You look down and this sheer cliff that goes off hundreds of feet down below. 
ASHLEY: Oh god. 
MATT: There's not enough light to even see where it stops on the bottom, but you see there are bits of rock shelves that just barely peek out from underneath. There is a whole cluster of what looks like either ruin or broken stone that is barely lit at its peak. Who knows how ragged and dangerous the base of this chasm is? Morri. 
LAURA: Would Morri kill us? 
ASHLEY: No, no. 
SAM: I think she might. 
ASHLEY: No, she will not. 
MATT: She puts her hands out and gathers you all into a huddle. Reaches into the side of her outfit and procures this brass monocle with a deep viridian lens in the center. Not unlike the lens that she gave you before you left. 
LAURA: That Ashton broke. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: Foreshadowing. 
TALIESIN: Like one of nine, but yeah, all right. 
MATT: "This, my friends, is the first item. The Monocle of True Essence. It'll be your job to find this," and she throws it into the ravine.
LAURA: No, no, Chet! (laughter) 
MATT: It disappears into the darkness below. You didn't even see where it lands. 
SAM: What if it broke? 
MATT: She goes, "You all must work together to find it. The chasm is unclimbable, but it listens. And as our agreement, it only listens to honesty." 
LIAM: Huh? 
MATT: "Speak of your secrets. Speaks of your truth about each other. Reveal something about yourself, and the land may show you a path forward." She steps back and snaps her fingers, and suddenly (whooshes) this sphere of magic just (whooshes) engulfs all of you like a bubble. You all catch yourself sliding inside for a minute. "Now, off with you," and she blows and it goes off the edge. 
LAURA: Oh! 
TRAVIS: (screams) 
MATT: Down into the chasm. And we're going to go to break. (screaming) 
TRAVIS: What did you do?! What'd you build?! What did you build?! 
SAM: We're falling?! 
MATT: You're falling. 
LAURA: We're falling and we have to yell truths out in order to save our orbs? 
MATT: You're in this arcane bubble as you're plummeting down into it. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
TRAVIS: Like a Resilient Sphere or something. 
MARISHA: Yeah. Will the bubble just protect us? Can we just ride this? 
MATT: We'll find out. 
MARISHA: Far as it'll go? 
MATT: We'll find out. So we'll be back here in a few minutes. We'll see you after the break. 
SAM: Amazing, amazing. 
TRAVIS: Oh man.

Break[]
[XBOX SOUND] We need to see this place for ourselves Let's make sure we are prepared for anything What the hell is going on? It's show time! Your days of loveless behavior will end here and now Who's the ruler of this land? I want you to beg! What's happening? It's her! What the..? Follow me! I want to take them down so nobody has to live under a tyrant anymore With that in mind, I think we should join forces We've come to save you! Who are you? It's my duty to set you back on the righteous path Prostrate yourselves before me and die! Hahaha! It seems peace isn't an option anymore Get ready guys! Welcome to the resistance, comrades! You might be right that I am a sinner, that is exactly why I have to stop you. It's time for action. Bear witness. The revolution is here! [XBOX SOUND] Loki's evil invades all realms. He must be stopped. Unleash your wrath. (mysterious music) 
TALIESIN: Delve into a new tabletop roleplaying game of investigative horror with the "Candela Obscura Core Rulebook" using the Illuminated Worlds System by Darrington Press. Roam the turn-of-the-century- inspired setting of the Fairelands, including the bustling city of Newfaire and the ancient ruins of Oldfaire below. Assemble a circle of investigators within the paranormal secret society of Candela Obscura. You'll analyze strange and horrifying events, fight back against dangerous phenomena, and contain the bleed that spreads from corruptive magick. Choose from 10 custom character sheets to empower your investigations and explorations. Use tactical intuition and brawn with the Soldier specialty, use your charm with finesse and flair as the Magician specialty, or study and practice mystical arts as an Occultist. Explore districts of Newfaire, competing organizations, four full assignments, and dozens of example assignments to inspire you. If you choose to brave the role of Game Master, this guide contains everything needed to pave the way for your Candela Obscura investigators. Offered in both a standard edition as well as an ornate limited edition for collectors, the "Candela Obscura Core Rulebook" contains 204 art-filled pages, including maps, items, immersive notes, mysteries, and plenty more to power your very own story. Keep this tome close for the knowledge obtained may be the key to protecting you, your allies, and the Fairelands. 
LAURA: Hey Critters! Laura Bailey here to guide you through what's new in the Critical Role shop. This is pretty badass. I mean the Traveler always says impulse purchases are a good decision. It's too powerful. This holiday season, give the gift of effortless style. Ooo so comfy cozy. Roll an investigation if you want. It's basically perfect. Oh my gosh, it's so amazing. This is a lot of stuff, you guys. We have so many cool things right now. And hey if you want, you could head over to the Critical Role shop right now. 
Yeah, I'm a size queen. (laughing) Anyway. Sorry. Ah, see that-- I know what that means now! Yeah! You do, you do! I'm learning! Weren't we at dinner when we had that lesson? Oh, God. (laughing) Like a nice dinner. (laughs) The nicest dinners teach you about the size queens. (laughing) Look at his little tail poking out of his long johns. I know that! Everything about this character-- I'm kidding! Is damage! The Industrial Revolution and its consequences! They told me that at the Scientology Center. (laughing) There's a David with a huge gummy member just hanging out. (laughing) I love this dog so much. 
(tense mysterious music)  
TALIESIN: What keeps the children of Hale safe from their curiosity? Nursery rhymes serve as cautionary tales to explain Candela Obscura's earliest adversaries. So when a creature of legend returns to the hollowed labyrinth of Grayslate, a new and unusual circle of investigators is formed, tasked to face an unholy corruption. As the unsuspecting Newfairens bear witness to this macabre phenomena, each investigator must steel their mind, perhaps even from themselves. The Circle of Tide and Bone. Assignment #31-58: The Antiquarian. 
(tense mysterious music) (ominous music) 
NARRATOR 1: Moc Weepe is in a bathrobe. He's wearing very comfortable slippers. In one hand, he is holding a delicious cup of bizarre unidentifiable tea It seems like tea. It's pretty close to being like tea. NARRATOR 2: Very herbaceous. NARRATOR 1: And in his other hand, he is holding a newspaper, unread. He's not reading the newspaper right now because he's too busy staring out the grand windows of his hotel penthouse solarium, looking past a menagerie of beautiful potted flowers and vines hanging from planters along the ceiling and walls, Looking out at a city unlike any he has ever seen. NARRATOR 2: "Un" -like? Ha ha. NARRATOR 1: Hey, that was unintentional, but that's very cool. Speaking of unlike, NARRATOR 2: Everything here is 'unlike' anything he's ever seen, because everything here is un-like. All right, that's enough with that pun, let's move on. NARRATOR 3: It's a good pun. 
(epic music) (mischievous music) (typewriter clacking) (peaceful music) 
JESTER: Oh hey, everyone. It's me, Jester. So the Traveler and I were going to tell you guys all about subscribing to Twitch, but, um, (giggles) it sort of seems like he's not really here right now, which is so stupid. Traveler? Traveler?! Artie! (grunts) You know what, it's fine. I can do it by myself, with myself. (laughs) I Invoke Duplicity. 
DUPLICATE: Oh, hello, Jester. 
JESTER: Hi, Jester. Okay, so what we're going to do today is tell the people at home all about the good stuff they get when subscribing to Twitch. 
DUPLICATE: Oh, I don't know what Twitch is, but that sounds good, let's go. 
JESTER: No, that's perfect, because this works for you, too, then. Okay so, there's a professionally moderated live chat. 
DUPLICATE: Ooh! 
JESTER: And if you subscribe, you can post the links in the chat. 
DUPLICATE: (gasps) Like a link to a cool hamster video? 
JESTER: Exactly like that! So what we do here is tell, like, really cool stories, right? And sometimes, like, crazy shit happens when we're telling those stories, and people that subscribe get special emotes so you can express how you feel. 
DUPLICATE: What if you live on the side of Exandria where it's really late, and you're like, "I'm just going to close my eyes for a few seconds," and then it's two hours, and the music is playing, and you're like, "Oh no, I missed the whole show!" 
JESTER: Oh no, that's a great question. Well, if you subscribe to Twitch, then you can just watch all of our VODs as soon as the live broadcast ends. So cool, right? 
DUPLICATE: So cool. 
JESTER: I know. Another really cool thing is you can gift subscriptions to people. Like, I could buy a subscription for you, duplicate Jester, and for other p-- What are you doing? 
DUPLICATE: Look what I found. 
JESTER: Oh my gosh, paint brushes. 
DUPLICATE: I could draw a dick. 
JESTER: Oh, well, technically, technically that might break Twitch's Terms of Service, so. But there's no rule against, like, drawing chubby little snakes. 
DUPLICATE: (giggles) Yeah, or a really long balloon sword. 
JESTER: Yeah, or like a really thick rope, with like, two honking knots at the end of it.
DUPLICATE: Cucumber, with two tomatoes. 
JESTER: Yeah! A banana, you know, sitting next to an onion and an avocado. 
DUPLICATE: Like a mushroom, with like a little cap on it. 
JESTER: A wiener dog, with just two feet. 
DUPLICATE: Yeah. 
JESTER: Artie, where are you? 
DUPLICATE: Should we go look for him? 
JESTER: Yeah, sure, why not. Oh, don't forget to subscribe to Critical Role. Okay, let's go! 
DUPLICATE: Okay! [whimsical music] 

Part II[]
MATT: And welcome back. So, (whooshes) you are plummeting in an arcane sphere-- (screaming) 
MATT: -- down into a massive chasm. You watch as the shadow and darkness begins to come closer and closer, and you begin to see the outlines of numerous platforms and broken bits of stone. You can see overgrown, heavy roots and bits of long-dead trees that have since fallen over and shattered beneath. It is an entire chasm floor of decay, roots, and overgrown greenery. As (flailing through air) (slam) hit it, all of you all slam one side into it as it bounces you about 10 feet in the air and then-- (poof) 
LAURA: Oh! 
MATT: (clattering) You all impact onto the soft, somewhat mucky bottom floor of this chasm. You're all covered in slime and decay residue. You can smell immediately the strong whiff of that heavy, bog-like stench. 
TRAVIS: (bleh) 
MATT: But looking around you, you can see the walls of the chasm are sheer up on each side of where you can see the faint bit of twilight in the cloudy sky above. Occasionally, you see a little flash of blueish lightning through the cloud, which denotes a storm may be coming. 
SAM: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, we've got to get out here, right? 
SAM: We've got to find the thing. 
MARISHA: We've got to find the monocle. 
LAURA: Don't you have an ability-- 
TRAVIS: No, we just got to get out of here. 
LAURA: -- to find an object? 
SAM: I do have Locate Object, yes. Should I-- 
LIAM: I really hope that was an illusion. 
SAM: -- invoke it? 
LIAM: I fell on my sword hilt. 
LAURA: Oh. Are you all right? 
LIAM: (groans) 
TALIESIN: Oh, that's a bruise. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
SAM: Well, first of all, she dropped it. Might it be around here on the ground with us? 
ASHLEY: I'll start looking for it. 
TRAVIS: I'll look, too. 
LAURA: How big is the space that we're in? Huge? 
MATT: From side to side, it looks like it's about, maybe, anywhere from 100 to 150 feet wide in certain places, and the climb up is about 300 feet. 
LAURA: Oh. 
MATT: It's a chasm that cracked through and has since been completely overgrown. You can see heavy, thick vines and moss have covered the rock to the point where you can only see bits of the stone poking through. 
TRAVIS: I know it's bog stench-y in here, but can I use my (sniffing) nose to smell any other life forms or anything that might be in the muck or around us or hiding? 
MATT: Sure, make a perception check for me. 
TRAVIS: Okay. Six. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: Six. (shoots a snot rocket) Your entire sinuses have filled with this muck. It has wrecked your ability to smell anything but that at the moment. 
TRAVIS: I need some Claritin. 
MATT and LAURA: (laugh) 
LAURA: I imagine she would make it to where we can't just cast Fly and get on out of here. 
TALIESIN: No. 
SAM: Maybe. 
LIAM: We've got to find the thing. What does this have to do with honesty? 
MARISHA: She said the canyon, it reacts to truths, and it will-- 
LAURA: Help us? 
MARISHA: It will terraform so we can get ourselves out of here. 
LAURA: Somebody say something true. 
SAM: I've never told anyone this before, but I enjoy eating silver more than copper. 
LAURA: Oh, why didn't you just say something before, FCG? 
MATT: You watch as one of the nearby ruins of stone (stone shifting) climbs about 15 feet up. 
SAM: Hey! That's easy! 
LAURA: That's great. 
ASHLEY: All right, all right. I'm going to look for the little lens. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, let's find that lens. 
LIAM: How big a fall was that? That thing went up 15 or 20 feet? 
MATT: A couple hundred feet. 
LIAM: Couple hundred feet. 
TRAVIS: Couple hundred. 
ASHLEY: Damn. 
LIAM: And we just gained 15. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LIAM: From that truth. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah. 
LIAM: Okay. 
LAURA: So, a lot of truths. But first, we should find the-- 
SAM: The bigger the truth, the bigger the spike. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
SAM: The bigger the ladder. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
SAM: I mean, I really think that this is a great opportunity for all of us to really get to know each other. After all, I came up with this, I think. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: All right, all right. Okay. 
LAURA: Do you see the lens? 
SAM: Oh, should I do the thing? 
ASHLEY: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: Can we look? I'm going to look around for the lens, too. 
MATT: Okay, make an investigation check. 
ASHLEY: What are you guys doing? Guidance. 
LAURA: Oh, thanks. Oh, you don't want to give it to me. 
SAM: I'm not going to cast it yet. I want to see where this goes. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
LAURA: I don't have a good-- 
LIAM: Guide it. 
LAURA: -- perception. Is it perception or investigation? 
LIAM: Guide it. 
MATT: This is an investigation to look in the space around you. 
LAURA: Oh! 
MATT: Actually, no, this would be perception because-- 
LAURA: Fuck. 
MATT: -- you're just looking in the area, sorry. 
LAURA: It would've been so much better if it was-- 20. 
MATT: 20, so you're inspecting the vicinity around you. 
LAURA: Ow! Fuck you! (laughs) 
MATT: You feel pretty confident that in the immediate vicinity, it is probably not nearby. 
LAURA: I don't see it. 
TRAVIS: Plus, if it's sludgy, it might be right under the surface, right? 
LAURA: Oh gosh. 
LIAM: (buzzes lips) 
TALIESIN: I'm going to get on my hands and knees-- 
SAM: I do! 
TALIESIN: -- and start trying to feel around, see if anything metallic-- 
MATT: Feel around. That would be an investigation check. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, okay. That's fine. 
SAM: I do have the spell, but maybe part of us working together is working together, right? So I won't cast it quite yet. 
TALIESIN: 20. 
LAURA: All right. 
LIAM: Yeah, maybe if we tell enough truths, it will be pushed up out of the muck. 
LAURA: It'll come up. 
ASHLEY: Revealed. 
LAURA: All right. 
SAM: That seems like something I would've come up with, sure. 
MARISHA: Well, it's called the Monocle of True Essence, so maybe if we expose our true essences-- 
LAURA: All right. 
SAM: Oh? You have a confession? 
LAURA: Yeah, I am genuinely scared to meet my mom again. 
SAM: Oh. 
MATT: The muck bubbles a bit nearby, and you see the wall on the what would be the side closest to where Nana Morri was, you watch as a bunch of the moss browns and falls away, and where it did, rocks emerge that create these stone steps that begin to climb the stone wall for about 30 feet up. 
SAM: Hey! 
TRAVIS: That's pretty great. This is going to be a piece of cake. 
LAURA: Yeah, easy peasy. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: It is well known that wood is better than metal. 
SAM: (disappointed) All right. 
LIAM: That's not a truth, that's an opinion. 
TALIESIN: That's an opinion. Have you never had-- 
TRAVIS: Just wait for it. You'll see. 
MATT: Ashton, you feel around inside the nearby muck with your investigation check. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, thank you. 
MATT: You find something that, it's not quite the monocle, but it definitely has a smooth-- 
LAURA: Uh-oh. 
MATT: -- and sturdy surface to it. You feel a pointed edge to it. 
LIAM: You feel the urge to break it. 
MATT: You yank a little bit, and you see what looks to be-- 
ASHLEY: Yank it. 
MATT: -- a skull, the front of some sort of creature's skull, emerge. The other thing you notice is, your stone arm is covered in leeches. 
SAM: Uh! 
LAURA: (gasps) Oh! 
MATT: They are currently suffering and finding no purchase against your volcanic arm. 
LAURA: Ugh, I'm going to go over to the rock that I lifted out of the mud and stand on it. 
MATT: Okay. The rest-- 
TALIESIN: This is definitely a safety tip right here. 
MATT: It's about now-- 
MARISHA: What's the skull? 
MATT: Around the time that you said your statement, you all began to feel this strange stinging around your legs, and you all begin to look down and notice that these leeches have begun-- 
LAURA: If you give a shitty truth, leeches come out. 
MATT: -- to now emerge. 
ASHLEY: (angrily) Oh! 
TRAVIS: We've just been here for too long! It's not me! 
ASHLEY: No, no, no. 
LAURA: It's definitely you. 
SAM: You said that, and now we're getting eaten by leeches. 
TRAVIS: I said that when we started getting eaten by leeches. 
LIAM: Oh man. (laughter) 
MATT: All of you take three points of piercing damage. (groaning) 
LIAM: Orym leaps up onto a rock and looks down the front of his leather pants. 
MARISHA: Oh no! 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
LIAM: Is it okay? 
MATT: For now. 
LIAM: Okay! 
TRAVIS: I don't know if I'd call it okay, but-- 
LAURA: Somebody say something real! 
MARISHA: (stammering) Deep down inside, both Delilah and I kind of want the shard! 
SAM: You want the shard?! 
MATT: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: She wants the shard. 
LIAM: What's the landscape doing? 
MATT: The staircase that had emerged from the stone, you watch as the outside of the wall juts outward and forms a bridge that seems to shoot about 30 feet out like an upward angle that emerges out into the open space about 65 feet up from the ground. You see from there, it both is an advanced climb, but also a vantage point. 
LIAM: Shit, Laudna. 
SAM: But we can't get there from here, right? 
MARISHA: I don't want it. 
MATT: You can, if you walk over that way. 
SAM: Oh. 
MARISHA: Fearne should have it. But I don't know anymore what's my opinion or desires or feelings or hers. 
SAM: Oh. 
LAURA: I love Laudna deeply. 
SAM: Oh. 
LAURA: But I'm disgusted at the thought of Delilah looking at us all the time. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
MATT: You-- 
MARISHA: Oh yeah, that's-- 
MATT: With these discussions here-- 
TRAVIS: Oh boy. 
SAM: This is just juicy! 
TRAVIS: The tea is flowing! 
MATT: You watch as many of the crumbled ruins-- 
MARISHA: Oh gods. 
MATT: -- that have sunk into the muck around you begin to rise up. It's like a long forgotten crumbled city begins to push up out of the mud at the bottom of this chasm. You can see all these partially destroyed, dome-like domiciles and toppled temple-like structures partially emerge from the muck as it slides off, heavy bits of old roots and dead vegetation clumped and sliding off the edge, most of these rising about maybe 10 or 15 feet off, not much of a bit of perspective, but it is changing the landscape inside the chasm around you. 
LIAM: I'm super lonely all the time, especially at night. Doesn't matter if I'm bunking with one of you guys. 
SAM: Oh. Oh! 
MARISHA: Does anyone have a happy truth? 
SAM: Mine were pretty bad. 
MATT: (laughs) 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: Sometimes I pity some of you because you have beating hearts and opportunities, and you don't do enough with them. 
MARISHA: Oh! 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Well, that's a little mean. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: The leeches in my eyes! 
TALIESIN: That's like a dig in the form of a truth, that's also an opinion. I don't know about that one. There were layers to that. 
LIAM: We're still in the game, right? 
SAM: I know, it's just-- (laughter) 
SAM: Chetney, you have so much love to give, and it doesn't seem like you're interested in anything, in anything other than wood! There's people out there who you could love and experiences you could share with someone else, but all you care about is wood! 
MATT: (landscape shifting) You watch as more of the ruins begin to emerge. Stone platforms begin to sprout out from parts of the ruin-- 
TRAVIS: Aw! 
MATT: -- getting close to connecting to the others. Parts of this ruin are half forming or reaching to form bridges between them. 
LAURA: We should try to get the lens, though. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I'm going to-- 
SAM: Oh yeah, the lens. 
LAURA: Let's look for the lens, and then we can climb out. 
ASHLEY: -- look for the lens in a different area. 
SAM: This is also kind of fun. 
MARISHA: I'm going to go up to that bridge that was the vantage point that was made with my truth. 
MATT: You would have to get through the muck to the far end of the wall that's nearest to where you fell in, and you can see there's that stone staircase that begins to climb up the side of the cliff face that leads into the platform that juts outward about 60 feet up. So you get onto the steps. It's a little precarious, but you step up along the edge until eventually, the steps come to an end, and then that jutting platform. It has no railing, it's just a four- to five-foot wide stone bridge that juts out at the side, and it goes on for about 50 or so feet outward, but it ends at about a 60-foot vantage point. You stand up at the very top of it, and you're having to slowly scoot, because if you fall, you tumble the whole way. You carefully begin making your way towards the edge. 
LIAM: ♪ Makin' your way ♪ 
MATT: Go ahead and make either an athletics or an acrobatics check to keep your balance-- 
LAURA: Oh god. 
MATT: -- to the edge of this vantage point. 
LIAM: I've always laughed it off, but I guess I do kind of wonder if Chetney is my dad! (laughter) (laughter) 
MARISHA: I rolled a 19 for a 21. 
MATT: A 19? All right, you get to the very edge. (laughter) 
MATT: It's a decent vantage point, and then suddenly, it extends another 30 or so feet to where now you're about 85 feet above the center, right over the center, and you have a pretty good view of everything beneath. You can see all these emerging ruins and crumbled bits of some ancient fey city that was swallowed by this chasm at odd angles. You can see there's muck and brush and trees and bushes, and it's this merging mass of old, forgotten space. The rest of you are still here in the bottom. 
SAM: Are there leeches still, or are we okay? 
TALIESIN: I've been trying to-- 
MATT: You pulled the leeches off of you. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: But no one's said anything that's-- 
LAURA: Aha! It was you! 
TALIESIN: I will have started-- Oh shit. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Oh, fuck it. 
MATT: There's personal truths that are presented as personal truths, or there's things that are presented as absolute truths that are personal truths, and you need to be careful about what you say in this space here. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: I am the reason-- 
TRAVIS: I'll fuck this up. It's okay, guys. 
LIAM: Hey, we got one. 
TALIESIN: I am the reason that the Jiana Hexum robbery went fucking wrong, and the reason why I got thrown out of a fucking window. 
MATT: You watch as some of the nearby fauna and ferns that have grown on some of these structures begin to brown and crumble away, and as it does, it begins to reveal the stone beneath. You can see there are bones left on there. You can see there are broken statues and sculptures. You can see that there's remnants of a culture that are just beginning to emerge. The heavy overgrowth that obscured most of these ruins is starting to fall away. 
MARISHA: Ashton, is that why you feel like you deserved to have the Nobodies leave you? 
TALIESIN: For that one? Yeah. We should probably keep moving right now. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Is that why you think we should leave you? 
TALIESIN: I've had a long life, and that was just one very loud day, and there has been a series of them, so-- 
LIAM: Any leeches? Any leeches? 
LAURA: (laughs) Orym! 
MATT: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I think that's just a-- 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: That was just in a movie once. 
TALIESIN: I've done one! Somebody else, for gods' sakes! (laughter) 
MATT: There's this long, jutting, thin pillar, a spike that juts out of the side of the cliff side that Laudna's clinging onto the edge overlooking everything. The rest of you are still on the floor. 
MARISHA: I'm scanning for any glint of red. 
LAURA: I'm going to climb up next to Laudna. 
MATT: Make a perception check for me. 
LIAM: Man, this lens better be amazing. 
LAURA: To hold onto you if you fall. 
MARISHA: Okay. Come on. Oof. Bad, bad. 
LIAM: (drop whistle) 
MARISHA: Eight. 
MATT: At the moment, you see nothing that even remotely resembles the monocle that was tossed down here. 
SAM: I'm going to turn on my lights, cast Light. Does Light work? Does the spell work? 
MATT: The spell seems to go off. Light emits. 
SAM: Okay, I'm shining light around. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to give a looksie, too. 
MATT: Okay, so you're glancing around the area? 
ASHLEY: At a different angle. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: Are you going anywhere specifically? 
ASHLEY: Glancing around the area. 
MATT: All right, so you're searching the muck in the areas-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah, a different spot. 
MATT: -- of the raised hill area. All right, so I need-- 
LAURA: It probably won't work anyway. 
MATT: -- either both of you to make individual, I'll say perception or investigation checks, or one of you can aid the other in one of them. 
SAM: I will make a perception check, if that's all right. 
LAURA: Guidance? Did you Guide yourself? 
ASHLEY: I'll make a perception check as well. I'm going to Guide myself. 
SAM: Guide myself, too. 
MATT: There you go. 
LAURA: Ooh! 
SAM: Oh. 20. 
MATT: 20. 
LAURA: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: Okay. 23 plus nine. 
SAM: Whoa, 32. 
MATT: 32 for an investigation check, okay. You don't see anything that catches-- 
ASHLEY: Perception. 
MATT: Perception, okay. You, standing here on the floor space, glance around, and you take a moment to really look through every single bit of brush and muck and structure that is eye level to you. 
ASHLEY: Where the fuck is it? 
MATT: And you feel fairly confident that from your vantage point right now, it is not visible. 
SAM: Oh. 
ASHLEY: I don't think it's down here. 
MATT: You either have to be somewhere else in the chasm, or from a different perspective, but from where you're standing right now-- 
LAURA: It could be up above. 
MATT: -- you feel confident that you're not missing it in the vicinity. 
ASHLEY: I feel like we are very ill-equipped for this job, and we're going to fail at saving the world. 
SAM: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh. 
MARISHA: Honestly, that's probably true. I'm kind of there with you. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: A large cluster of vines begins to grow and sprout from the side of the stone wall above where your spike jutted out, continuing to climb, but it's like a net network of vines that curl up along the rock, offering a place where you could begin to climb higher. 
TRAVIS: All right, all right. While wood may be the superior material to metal, I do fear that with the dwindling interest in it, that children will find my toys and thereby myself obsolete every year that I grow older. 
ASHLEY: Oh no! 
MATT: You watch as some of the structures that had emerged-- 
LAURA: Oh, Chet! 
MATT: -- begin to shake and crumble, and the ruins that had pushed out of the muck begin to fall, and as they do, your keen eye begins to point out, of the five or so that fell, that there is no sign of the monocle you seek upon them, which is eliminating possibilities. 
ASHLEY: Not there, not there, not there. 
MARISHA: Do you want me to give you a boost up into these vines? 
LAURA: Sure. 
TRAVIS: You could all say I'm not obsolete! You don't have to just listen! 
LAURA: You're not obsolete, Chet. Look at you, you're-- 
TRAVIS: (wheezing) 
SAM: You have a lot to offer, but maybe other than toys. Maybe yourself is the thing that you could offer the world. 
TRAVIS: (grimaces) 
TALIESIN: Or, you know, something honest about yourself, for fuck's sake! 
TRAVIS: (grimaces) 
LIAM: This is a good time to roll those percentile dice. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: That was only a short rest! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Oh no! (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Damn. 
MARISHA: I give Imogen a boost into the-- 
MATT: You're still up on the spike. Imogen-- 
LAURA: I was climbing. I had climbed up. 
MATT: So you climbed up as well? Okay, so you-- 
MARISHA: Up into the vines. 
MATT: So you get to the steps. You're on the edge of the spike. Are you going down the spike? 
MARISHA: Oh, is-- 
MATT: Sorry. 
MARISHA: Sure. Yeah. 
MATT: So the spike juts out of the wall and it's out over up the chasm, like a sideways tower-- 
LAURA: Oh! 
MATT: -- that you're at the tip of. 
LAURA: Got it. 
MARISHA: The vines are back-- 
LAURA: Are back on the edge. 
MATT: Where the vines grew out of where the steps stopped and where the spike shot out and then continues up the side of the chasm. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
LAURA: Okay. 
LIAM: Oh, so not from the tip of the spike-- 
LAURA: We need some more-- 
MATT: Right, no. 
LIAM: There's one way and then there's the vine way. 
MATT: Basically, Imogen is the edge of this large stone plank that's overlooking the entirety of this chasm floor that you're at. Then the vines took over where the steps stopped and are climbing up the side of the hill. 
LAURA: I am sorry. It was just easier when she wasn't so present. You know? I didn't expect her to come out and talk to us. She's just here all the time now. 
MARISHA: I know. I'm sorry. 
LIAM: Orym's going to flea jump upward and start climbing those vines to see if any vantage point up high is better for finding this damn lens. 
MATT: Okay. You begin to climb up the vines. As you get at the top of the steps, I need you to make an athletics check for me. 
LIAM: Athletics? 
MATT: Yes. 
LIAM: That would be a 17. 
MATT: A 17. Okay. Hand over hand. These are very solid vines. Freshly grown. You can see they give a little bit, they have a flexibility to them, but they're not slick or covered in the muck. They magically apparated from the side of the stone. So you have a pretty firm grip and you get about another 15, 20 feet up. So you're almost at the halfway mark up the side of the cliff currently. 
LIAM: Halfway. We're only halfway up, you guys better start dropping some truths. 
SAM: Okay, okay. 
TALIESIN: It's time for some "What the fuck is up with that?" 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TALIESIN: All right. Are we ready? 
LAURA: No! 
ASHLEY: Yeah? 
SAM: So I think it's something buried deep down in my circuitry, but every time I hurt or kill something, it feels really good. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
SAM: It makes me relax a little bit and some of my stress goes away. 
LAURA: Oh. 
MARISHA: Oh! (laughs) 
LIAM: Wow. 
MATT: You watch-- 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: -- three more of the ruined structures crumble and are swallowed by the muck below. Fearne still keeping a ground level eye. You, at a cursory glance from above, you don't see any possible glint or sign of the object you seek, which reduces it now to 10 structures that currently stand amongst the muck. 
TRAVIS: FCG, that's great. We should go hunting sometimes. 
SAM: No, I want to-- 
TRAVIS: We can de-alive a bunch of stuff. 
SAM: Ooh, no, but I'm supposed to be a healer. I'm supposed to heal, not hurt. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, sometimes you got to take to give. 
SAM: (laughs) Oh, well, maybe. 
LAURA: I know we're supposed to save the gods-- 
SAM: I don't like that look in your eye. 
LAURA: -- but I've tried talking to them my whole life and none of them will ever respond. I think I'm tainted. I don't know if I want to save gods that don't love me. 
MATT: Hmm! The stone structure that you stand on, you watch as a secondary piece of it, splinters out and smashes into the opposite side of the cavern walls. Now you have the vines climbing up one side, and now you, the bridge that attaches to the other, you now have two paths to climb should you choose, but also this has separate vantage points as well. 
LAURA: Great. We should go to the other side. 
MARISHA: You know, we could all ripcord out of this at any moment. And I don't mean this scavenger hunt, I mean saving the world, right? And sometimes I fantasize about it all the time. 
LAURA: Sometimes. (laughs) 
SAM: Sometimes all the time? 
MARISHA: Sometimes all the time. (laughter) 
MARISHA: It was a Freudian slip. Do you know who that is? 
SAM: I do. He's a great robot. (laughter) 
MATT: You hear the crack of thunder as a rainstorm begins to gently pour down from above. 
LAURA: Oh, it's going to get real. 
MATT: As the rain begins to pour, you watch, it begins to wash the muck off of the remaining structures. 
SAM: Oh! That's good! 
LAURA: Oh. 
MATT: It does make some of the surfaces more slick. 
LAURA: Oh! 
MATT: But what it does is it begins to reveal in the surrounding space of this chasm, a lot more of the bold ruin structure. The remaining stone creations and statues that are partially crumbled. You can watch as a lot of the muck at the base of the chasm begins to almost (slurps). You assume it would fill with water, but it's like a drain's been hit and the muck's beginning to drain out. 
LAURA: What does it look like? Do we see details of the city as it drains away? 
MATT: You can make a perception check, if you'd like, from your vantage point to see if you pick up any more detail. 
LAURA: 17? 
MATT: 17. You can see more detail of the structures. You can see there's window sections. You can see half of a temple tower that has tumbled over. You can see what looks like a child's stone, like an early craft of a stone child that's reaching outward, broken off at the elbow. Its long fey ears, slightly weathered away by time. But you don't see any sign of the monocle from your vantage point. 
LIAM: I'm going to stretch out as far as I can, which is not that far because I'm halfling, from the vines and try to stare down and see if I can-- 
MATT: Make a perception check. 
LAURA: You're on the opposite side of us? 
LIAM: Yes. 
MATT: Yeah. You've met up with... 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: Reroll the one and that one's cocked, right? 
LAURA: Yes, sir. 
TALIESIN: It's cocked. 
LIAM: Okay, so both are rerolled. 18 plus... That is a 29. 
MATT: A 29. Clinching on the side and looking down, you look about and as the rain's washing away the scum and the muck, you see on one of the rooftops, like the fourth building up from where the rest of the group is still standing in the base of the chasm, you see this slight faint green glint. 
SAM: (gasps) 
LIAM: Green? 
MATT: Green. 
LAURA: That's what we were looking. 
MARISHA and LIAM: Oh, I thought it was red. 
LAURA: No, it was green. 
MARISHA: It was green? 
LIAM: The one long ago was green. 
LAURA: Yeah! 
SAM: Oh no, you have red-green color blindness. 
LAURA: He said verdant. Verdant. 
MATT: Verdant is green. 
SAM: Okay. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Sorry. 
MARISHA: Oh, okay, it's green. 
MATT: It's a brass monocle with a green lens. 
MARISHA: Green lens. Not red lens. 
LIAM: Okay. Truth on hold for a second, I think I see it! 
MATT: Someone spoke. 
LAURA: That's a truth. 
LIAM: I don't want anything to shift and us lose it. It's there. 
TALIESIN: Are you going for it or who's going for it? 
LAURA: Can I see it? Where you're pointing? 
MATT: Make a perception check. It's a lower DC because he spotted it and is showing where it is. 
LIAM: Pointed on top of it. 
MATT: It's about-- 
LAURA: 18. 
MATT: What's that? 
LAURA: 18. 
MATT: 18. I'd say, no, unfortunately. Even when pointing it out from your vantage point, you can't quite make a visual bead on it from this high up. Both of you climbing the opposite side of where it is, you're about 85 or so feet to 100 feet off the ground. 
LAURA: Away from... 
SAM: Can you throw something at it? 
LIAM: Ladies, if I leap, will you give me a soft landing? 
MARISHA: Yes. 
SAM: If magic works. 
LAURA: What if magic doesn't work in here? 
LIAM: No one did anything? 
SAM: I cast Light. I cast Light. 
LAURA: We haven't tried. 
LIAM: Yeah, that's right, you did. 
SAM: That's a low-level thing. I guess that's okay. 
LIAM: I throw wind out into the air. 
MATT: (whooshes) You see the raindrops get tossed aside from him before the rest of the storm takes it. 
SAM: Okay, it worked. 
LIAM: Okay, that should do it. I leap towards that building. 
MATT: All right. 
MARISHA: I wait for him to complete his arc and when he-- 
SAM: His character arc? 
MARISHA: Yes. (laughter) 
MARISHA: And... splat. 
LIAM: See you next year. (laughter) 
MARISHA: When he's on his downward curve, then I'll toss a-- 
TRAVIS: I killed my parents. 
LIAM: Telekinesis him down. 
MATT: Yeah. (laughs) 
MARISHA: Yeah! (laughs) 
MATT: For the width of this chasm, roll an athletics or acrobatics check to see-- 
LIAM: Acrobatics, shall we? That is a 25. 
MATT: Okay. So this is going to be like, using your acrobatics be more of almost swinging back and forth and then leaping and parkouring off the back and trying to get as much-- 
SAM: Parkour! 
MATT: -- of a leap as you can. The rain's spattering you as you arc past that sense, like time seems to slow for a moment as you pass by. Looking up at the storm above, hoping it's enough as you arc downward to look in the direction of where you're going. You release your magical incantation to catch him in that graceful descent, and you watch as what would've been the top of the arc to immediate swan dive descent. Just continues to carry and glide at an angle. 
LIAM: (paddling in the air) 
LAURA: No, no, you're good. You're good. 
TALIESIN: Are you below us now or are you-- 
LIAM: I'm on a roof that's 10 or 15 feet high, right? 
MATT: You slowly descend and land onto it. What are the rest of you doing, by the way? 
TALIESIN: Looking at what should be the next point up and-- 
LAURA: Tell some truths! We're halfway up. 
MATT: So the rest of you have climbed up. So right now there's two points in the wall. There's either the vines that climb up the side of the chasm where you started, or there's the large spike of stone that is impacting on the opposite side, and that's where Laudna and Imogen have climbed up that spike to where it meets the wall halfway up and it's a sheer cliff above. Or there's where the vines are that Orym just leapt off of that's about halfway up as well. 
ASHLEY: We'll start going up the bridge with the witches. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: After Orym retrieves this, does he have a way out, up? 
MATT: We'll find out. Orym, you land here, you glance around and you saw it pretty clearly. It doesn't take you much time with the rain washing all the muck away and you can see it's revealed there, caught in a chipped portion of the stone work. It's half wedged into it. You pull it free and you have indeed the unscathed green-lensed monocle in your grasp. 
LAURA: Woo-hoo. 
LIAM: Okay, I got it. 
MARISHA: We did it! 
LIAM: I shove it into a fold in my armor. 
MATT: You got it. 
MARISHA: But we still need truths to get it out. 
SAM: Into your marsupial pouch? 
LIAM: Yes. 
MATT: So we have the witches up the top. I will say because you've made your athletics check to climb up the spike. Can I have both of you roll athletics checks as well? Especially now with the rain, it's making it challenging to slide up this odd-- 
LAURA: Oh! 
ASHLEY: Natural 20. 
MARISHA and LIAM: Ooh! 
MATT: 20. All right. What'd you roll, Imogen? 
LAURA: For what? 
MATT: This is just-- 
ASHLEY: Oh, but I have a minus two on athletics. 
MATT: That's okay. That's okay. 
LAURA: I'm supposed to roll an athletics? 
MATT: Just roll for me with the rain. Yeah, I didn't have you roll when you went up the top. So I'm going to pick it up. 
LIAM: You're rolling good-- 
SAM: I've got to go up to the ramp as well, I think. 
MATT: Are you going up the ramp? 
LAURA: 21. 
SAM: I'll go up the ramp. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Last. 
MATT: All right, last? Anybody else going up the ramp or anybody taking the vines? 
LAURA: Chet? 
TRAVIS: I'll do the vine. Is everybody doing the vines? 
LIAM: I'll do the vines, if I can. 
LAURA: Just Orym. 
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: I'll do it, too. 
MATT: All right. So the three of you, you're going up now, or you going last? 
SAM: Sure. Okay. 
TALIESIN: Whichever is more athletics to go up. 
MATT: Honestly, both of them right now is athletics with the water that's happening. It's trying to cling to it and keep along the lengthy spike of stone. So pretty much everyone else who's ascending, make an athletics check. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to go on hands and knees, because my hoofs are too slippery. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Yeah, it's valid. 
LAURA: Oh, but this bridge only goes, what, halfway up, or--? 
MATT: Halfway up the chasm. There's still another halfway up. 
LAURA: Okay, we got to talk more. 
ASHLEY: Um, um. 
MATT: You're now split, you're on two different sides of the chasm. 
SAM: Oh shit. 
ASHLEY: Sometimes I-I-I do stuff to you guys while you're sleeping. Not like weird stuff. I just like to look at you closely and you know, just look at you. 
SAM: No, I don't know. 
ASHLEY: No. Well, no, you were sleeping and you look so content and comfortable and I can just get up in there and look at you really well. 
SAM: Like where? 
LAURA: But like where? 
TALIESIN: Is that all you do? 
ASHLEY: Your faces! God! 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
SAM: So you're just looking at us while we're asleep? 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
SAM: It doesn't seem that bad. 
ASHLEY: And maybe, like, twiddle your hair or like braid it. 
MARISHA: Oh! 
ASHLEY: I don't know, nothing bad. Nothing bad. 
SAM: (laughs) 
MARISHA: But Fearne, that's a weird thing to say, and you're getting defensive about it. 
ASHLEY: I feel like you all are thinking that I do something untoward towards you and I don't. I'm just like-- 
SAM: Looking and touching us. 
ASHLEY: Looking at you, while you're sleeping. (laughter) 
MATT: The stone spike that jutted out from the original wall seems to have sprouted a smaller platform that shoots outward at an upward angle along the cliff face, like a switchback plank platform. Then it arcs back up again and there's a rickety looking stone, maybe three-foot wide walkway that goes on for about 20 feet up at an angle before it curves up and switches back onto another 20 feet. That gets you about almost three quarters up the way of that side, but it is slick. 
LIAM: (like Fearne) Okay, I just put my tongue in your noses. (laughter) 
LAURA: (tongue waggling) 
LIAM: (whooshes) 
ASHLEY and LAURA: (tongue waggling) 
TRAVIS: 23 for the vine crawl. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: I'm going to Guidance myself and I will get a... Ooh. What is this? Athletics, acrobatics? 
MATT: Athletics. 
SAM: 18. 
MATT: 18. What'd you get? 
TALIESIN: I was 26. 
MATT: 26, great. All right. So you going up with the witches. I'd say with that, that gets you across the spike and up to the switchback platform that just emerged to almost three quarters of the way up the other side of the chasm wall. The three of you are climbing up the vine side and successfully get up to about just past the halfway point before the vines come to an end on that edge. 
SAM: Well, we did it. 
TALIESIN: Fuck it. Oh god. Anytime it's too quiet, I start worrying that one of us, most of us are going to end up killing another one of us accidentally. 
SAM: That's fair. 
LAURA: Well. 
TALIESIN: All of us. 
SAM: All of us? 
LAURA: Even Orym? 
TALIESIN: Orym... very gently, but probably-- (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Orym may be the only one I worry about the least. But genuinely, everybody else, I have panicked thinking about what happens when one of you kills another one of us. 
MATT: The stone. 
MARISHA: Orym, do you have any strong feelings one way or another kind of being the normal guy in a group of freaks who are all ticking time bombs? 
LIAM: What's the question? 
SAM: Are you okay with that? 
MARISHA: Yes! Do you have any strong feelings? 
LIAM: Truth, truth, truth. I have all the faith in the world in you guys, all of you. And I have also spent time thinking how to neutralize each of you. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Fucking Batman. 
MATT: Between the two of you, the stone right above where the vines stop, breaks open, clobs of dirt and rock begin to fall out and you have to pull off of the side as they tumble, and you watch as a familiar skull emerges from the rock, like the one that you found in the muck. 
LAURA: Oh. 
MATT: As it emerges and curls up, you watch as a spinal column follows behind it, a fossil of some weird ancient fey lizard beast pushes through the stone. 
LAURA: Cool. 
MATT: It curves up, pushing back into the rock about 20 feet up. As it stops, partially emerging and then reconnecting on the opposite side, its spinal column and the emerging ribs could be climbed. 
MARISHA: Mm! Chetney. 
TRAVIS: Is that on our side, the vines? 
MATT: That's on your side, Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Yeah! I'm on it! 
MARISHA: Chetney, you look like you had something to say. 
TRAVIS: Ah! 
SAM and LAURA: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: I try to climb! 
MATT: All right. Athletics check for those who are climbing on the opposite side of the chasm. 
SAM: He's climbing away from his problems. 
MARISHA: He is. 
TRAVIS: Fuck! 14. 
SAM: He can't do it! (laughter) 
MATT: 14. It's not that difficult at this point, thanks to the rib cage that's there. You nearly slip a couple times because of the slickness of the rain that's still falling, but you hand over hand begin to make it to the very top. Now that puts the climb on the opposite side at about level with the other switchback platforms on the opposing side of the chasm. So you've now climbed to the top of this skeletal being before it re-punches into the side of the chasm wall and you can see them across the way. 
LIAM: And the gap that you just closed. So Chet's at the top? 
MATT: Chet's about at the three quarters up. 
LIAM: Oh, so you're not at the top, you're just getting close? 
MATT: Yeah, you're eye level with the other team. Both sides of the chasm, now you have two paths that get about three quarters of the way to the top. 
LIAM: Oh, okay. How many feet would I guess we are from the top? 
MATT: About 40 or so feet. 
LIAM: Oh my god. Jeez. 
SAM: I guess I can admit to you guys. I hope she's not listening, but I kind of worry that I put all my eggs in the Changebringer basket and she might betray us all. I had a really weird conversation with her and I think she's just out for herself and she might not really care about me, but what if she does and I'm saying horrible things? I'm sorry! 
MATT: You watch as in the cliff face next to the witches and FCG on this side, these tiny little mushrooms that were sitting there begin to inflate-- 
LAURA: Giant mushrooms! 
MATT: -- and spread outwards to the point where they're now these massive umbrella caps of mushrooms and there's four of them that (whooshes). 
LAURA: Can we climb on them? We can climb on them. 
MARISHA: But are they bouncy? 
SAM: Chris Pratt's on one of them. (laughter) 
LAURA: It's-a me! 
MATT: Oh my god. (laughter) 
MATT: You touch one and it feels light. You touch it and it (wobbles). It moves like a balloon as you touch it. 
LAURA: Oh, this feels like-- What is that? "Ninja Warrior"? No, not "Ninja Warrior." 
SAM: "Wipe Out"? 
LAURA: "Wipe Out." 
ASHLEY: Yes! Yes. 
LAURA: (bouncing) Ping. (groans) 
TRAVIS: Also, yes, AMC. 
SAM: Wait, that's on the side with Chetney or-- 
MATT: No, that's on your guys' side because it was your truth. 
LAURA: That's on our side. Okay, so we'll start climbing up the mushrooms. 
MATT: Okay. You grab the side and as you do, it disengages and you immediately clench your arms tight-- 
LAURA: (yells) 
MATT: -- and float off the side, but you float, and as you do, it lifts up. 
SAM: It's a balloon mushroom! 
LAURA: Oh, there's four of them! 
MATT: It picks you up across the chasm and begins to arc upward as it's releasing spores. 
MARISHA: Cool. 
MATT: As it releases spores, it begins to descend-- 
LAURA: Oh shit! Oh shit! 
MATT: -- and looks like it's heading in the direction of where the skeletal being is in the opposite side where your friends are clutching onto it. 
ASHLEY: Oh, say something true! 
SAM: Jump over! 
LAURA: Fearne! Fearne! 
ASHLEY: Yeah? 
LAURA: I was really disa-- 
ASHLEY: You're in love with me, I know. 
LAURA: I was really disappointed in you-- 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
LAURA: -- for running away from your power. You should take the shard. 
MARISHA: You should take the shard! 
MATT: As you clutch this massive floating mushroom-- 
LIAM: That's an opinion! 
MATT: -- and you watch as the cap is withering, as it gives out these spores it's reducing in size-- 
LAURA: The disappointed frog. 
MATT: -- and beginning to curl in. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, it was, it was. 
MATT: You feel your descent begin to arc down where you're about to crash in towards this-- 
LAURA: Ah! 
LIAM: I really miss Dorian, and sometimes I think that's okay, and sometimes I think it isn't! 
MATT: Between these multiple truths that have been said, you watch as bushes begin to sprout out of this massive skeletal frame-- 
LAURA: Oh! 
MATT: -- of this creature. 
LAURA: The bush saved me! 
SAM: Always does. 
MATT: Flowers blossom out of it. 
LIAM: Have faith in the bush. (laughter) 
MATT: Multiple colors. As you're about to crash into this skeleton, instead you crash into this bush and get caught in the middle of it. 
SAM: Oh no. 
MATT: Sticks and leaves and petals are jammed into your hair. 
SAM: Oh, we're all in here. (laughter) 
LAURA: It's so big! 
MARISHA: So wait, we're all clustered together now? 
TRAVIS: Somebody tame this bush! 
MATT: The other three of you are now clustered still by the other mushrooms. 
LIAM: Need some gardening in here. 
MATT: She's the only one that leapt off of the mushroom. 
LAURA: I'm hanging onto the bush. 
MARISHA: Oh, you're the only one? Oh. 
LIAM: Can you smell that? 
MARISHA: So wait, can we also leap for the bush? 
MATT: If you want to grab a mushroom and ride it over. 
ASHLEY: ♪ 'Cause I'm saved by the bush ♪ 
MATT: She's the only one that grabbed a mushroom. 
SAM: Let's grab a mushroom and ride it over. 
MARISHA: Okay, let's do it. 
LAURA: How big is the bush? 
TRAVIS: Ride the mushroom over to the bush. 
LAURA: Can they all fit on the same bush? 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: There are multiple sections of, yeah. (laughter) 
SAM: I'm going to steer the head of the mushroom right at the bush. 
LAURA: Can I start-- (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Get in the bush before the mushroom gets over there! (laughter) (laughter) 
LAURA: You didn't even know you did it? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: He caught up! (laughter) 
MATT: You motherfuckers! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: This mushroom keeps rising and falling. (laughter) 
LIAM: Is there anything coming out of the mushroom? 
LAURA: Yeah, spores! 
MARISHA: Little pretty spores. 
SAM: Little spores. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to ride this mushroom out of the hole. 
MATT: Suddenly, everything falls from within the chasm and you all plummet to your deaths. (laughter) 
MATT: Jesus Christ. If you want to try and guide your umbrella shroom, make a dexterity check for me. 
SAM: Dexterity check. 13 plus, (hums) nothing. (laughs) 
MATT: Okay. It's a little hard to aim, but it was already at a pretty decent trajectory. As the rest of you ride these mushrooms up into the gust of wind, and then eventually, the spores cause it to begin to curl and wither. (stifled laughter) 
ASHLEY: (intensely laughs) 
TALIESIN: I'm holding it together, I'm fine. Just pointing that out. 
SAM: Mine's curving left a little. 
TALIESIN: Punish them, not me. 
LIAM: Hold on! I love it when we pervert Matt's narrative! (laughter) 
LIAM: It's true! (laughter) 
SAM: Just a little. I can tell, but I don't think anyone else can tell. (laughter) (laughter) 
MATT: Eventually, you're all... safe on the skeleton, covered in many flowers and vines. 
ASHLEY: Wait, I didn't take a mushroom over yet! 
SAM: You've got to. 
LAURA: You've got to take it. 
ASHLEY: All right. I'm going to-- 
SAM: Might help if you yell out a truth. 
LAURA: Say something true! 
ASHLEY: I'll rip the mushroom off and swing a leg around the thing. 
MATT: All right. 
ASHLEY: Uh... Well, I'm not going to go yet, because I can't think of anything. 
SAM: (laughs) 
MATT: Well, you ripped it out. As soon as you rip it out (whooshes)-- 
ASHLEY: Just stand here. 
MATT: It takes you up into the wind. 
ASHLEY: Shit! 
MARISHA: I pull out Pâté! 
MATT: "Oh yeah, what are we doing?" 
MARISHA: Say something true! Be honest! 
MATT: "I'm barely alive, what do you want from me?" 
MARISHA: That's true. 
SAM: How do you feel about Laudna? 
MATT: "She's my creator!" 
SAM: That's not a feeling. (laughter) 
MATT: "I don't have feelings, I'm a construction!" 
SAM: Oh, okay. (laughter) 
LAURA: Laudna, you have to say something true. 
TALIESIN: Are you controlled by Lady Briarwood? 
MATT: "I don't know what that means!" 
TALIESIN: That's not a yes or no! (laughter) 
TALIESIN: Shit. I tried. 
MATT: You are-- 
MARISHA: I still feel-- 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
MATT: You're guiding over, and as the mushroom is taking its downward arc towards the bushels of flora. 
LAURA: (laughs) Nope, you go. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to go for one. 
LIAM: Can I Gust up towards Fearne? 
SAM: Oh, okay. Ash has got something! Ash has got something! 
TALIESIN: I feel fucking worse that I just fucked up Fearne's life way more than mine and I should've died instead of that happening. 
LAURA: Aw! 
MATT: Lightning streaks down from the storm and strikes the top of the cliff face about 40 or so feet above you. As it does, rocks go flying outward and all of you, oh shit, like clutch hard to the side of this. As you're arcing down and smashing into the edge of this and holding on as best you can, the rocks tumble. Bits begin to hit the shoulders and back, but the large ones go tumbling past and slamming down into the ravine below. As you glance up, it looks like where the lightning struck, there is a cleft that is left behind that causes the last 20 feet of the climb to instead be a steady incline in towards. So you've cut the remaining climb by about half. 
LAURA: Nice! 
SAM: That's great, that's great. 
LIAM: Got to get in a new cleft. 
LAURA: Is she over at us yet? 
MATT: Yes, you've all gathered now, and you're all patchwork spider grabbing onto the side of this massive, weird, serpentine spine and ribcage. 
TRAVIS: All right, all right! I grew up in the Bramblewood outside of Westruun, and when I was a kid, I came back from learning how to make toys and found that my whole family had left. All they left behind were toys. They ran when Errevon the Rimelord was running across the plains, and so I'm kind of afraid of dragons, and I had five siblings: Alabaster, Pepper, Sugarplum, Hermey, and Chad. And I was so mad that they left, I never looked for any of them! And now I'm pretty sure they're dead. So I think that any family I have is just going to look for a reason to leave me. 
SAM: (gasps) 
TRAVIS: That's why I don't get attached to anybody. 
LAURA and SAM: Aw! 
MARISHA: Oh. 
MATT: The rain slowly subsides as fast as it arrived. As the storm begins to pull away and the faint bit of twilight begin to crack through what was once the dense, heavy clouds above, you hear this gentle sound of odd bird calls. These strange, eagle-like creatures begin to swoop down. You can see they have these very expansive, soft, down-like wings that have zebra patterns through them. Where their head would be, it is just a massive hand. There's no legs, that you can tell. They look like manta rays flying with a massive, no thumb, just five fingers that curl where its head would be. As the cluster of them dive down, giving this weird (squawking). 
LAURA: Are they nice? 
SAM: Are they trying to grab us? 
MATT: They swoop towards you. 
LAURA: Are they nice? 
MATT: What do you do? 
SAM: I hold out my arms. 
ASHLEY: I think. Yeah, I think-- 
MATT: (whooshing) It snatches you and picks you up, and drops you right at the base of where that cleft is before taking off. (thudding) One-by-one, each of you are grabbed by one of the seven that arrived with the parting of the storm and get dropped within the cleft and along the edges of it. Emerging from the center of this chasm, soaked, shivering, and processing the various truths that were shouted amongst the center of this chaos. You see there waiting, hands clasped, Morrigan, Nana Morri, the Fatestitcher looking amongst all of you with both sets of eyes. "Well-- It seems like you succeeded. Congratulations on your first team building exercise. I hope you got a lot out of it." 
LIAM: You came up with that with Fresh Cut Grass? 
MATT: "Well, it was his idea and I just sort of ran with it." 
SAM: I feel like I might've said something like, "Wouldn't it be great if we could all share our feelings?" 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "Yes! Yes, you had such great ideas!" 
SAM: But I don't know about the pit and the-- 
MATT: "That's why collaborations make us all stronger." 
SAM: Oh. 
MATT: "Right? Communication, truth, and honesty. (laughs)" (Morri 2) "(cackles)" 
TALIESIN: Let's everybody check for leeches really quickly. I'm going to check for leeches. 
LAURA: Orym's been checking the whole damn time. 
LIAM: No, this is just the third time! No leeches. 
TALIESIN: I'm good. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: (Morri 1) "The monocle is yours." 
SAM: Oh, what does it do? 
MATT: "Do with it as you will." 
MATT: You hold it in your hand and immediately know what it is. 
LIAM: Ooh loo loo! 
TALIESIN: Loo loo loo! 
MARISHA: Jeez. 
LIAM: (laughs) 
LAURA: Oh, nice! 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
LAURA: It gives advantage on insight and perception checks. 
TALIESIN: Ooh! 
LAURA: In addition, can we say what it does? 
LIAM: Sure. It Detects Magic once per day, See Invisibility twice per day. Arcane Eye, once per day. 
LAURA: What is Arcane Eye? 
LIAM: That sends an eye going looking around. 
LAURA: Oh, like Allura has? 
MATT: Yeah. 
LAURA: Okay, cool. 
TRAVIS: That's cool. 
LAURA: "Item regains the use of these spells after the bearer finishes a long rest." 
TALIESIN: I don't think you need to attune it. I think it's just a thing. 
LAURA: Oh! 
SAM: Oh wow. 
LAURA: Is it? It's not attunable? 
MATT: It's not attuning. 
LAURA: Sweet! 
ASHLEY: Tight, tight, tight. 
TALIESIN: It's just a thing that does stuff that you don't have to get to know. 
SAM: You in a monocle would be cool. 
LAURA: Oh, Chet. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
LAURA: Oh, Laudna with a monocle! 
TALIESIN: That's got a vibe. 
LAURA: That's pretty tight. 
MARISHA: My big, black pupil. 
MATT: "Well? What's next?" 
SAM: Oh, boy. 
MARISHA: I'm already so tired and we have two more. 
LIAM: Communication was what we said next. 
SAM: Communication, trust? 
ASHLEY: Yes, yes, yes. 
MATT: "Communication." 
SAM: That was a real big breakthrough, Chetney. Are you okay? 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
LAURA: I'm going to give him a hug. 
SAM: I will, too. 
LAURA: Look-- 
MARISHA: I didn't know you had that kind of vulnerability in you, Chet. 
TRAVIS: I don't. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
LAURA: We're not going anywhere. 
MARISHA: Do you like us? 
TRAVIS: Is this still a part of the test? 
MATT: "Maybe." 
TRAVIS: (reluctantly) Yes. 
MARISHA: Aww! Do you like Fearne more than the rest of us? 
TRAVIS: No. 
MARISHA: Oh. 
TALIESIN: (rumbling) (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Ah! (laughter) 
LIAM: Leeches! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: (groans) Sand worm. (laughter) 
SAM: What were your brothers' and sisters' names? 
TRAVIS: Alabaster, Pepper, Sugarplum, Hermey, and Chad. 
MARISHA: (laughs) "And Chad." (laughs) Chet and Chad. 
SAM: Hermey, Chad, who was the second one? 
TRAVIS: Alabaster. 
LAURA: Pepper. 
SAM: Pepper! 
ASHLEY: Sugarplum. 
LAURA: Sugarplum is the one I forgot. 
TALIESIN: Sugarplum. Hermey and Chad. 
ASHLEY: What wonderful names. 
MARISHA: Mm-hmm. 
TRAVIS: I guess. 
ASHLEY: Did you have a favorite? 
TRAVIS: No. 
LAURA: Were you the youngest of them or the oldest? Youngest? 
SAM: Mm. 
MARISHA: That's so sad, Chet. 
SAM: They might still-- One of them might still be around. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: "If you want vengeance, just let me know." 
SAM: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Later, later, later. 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Later, yeah, later. 
MATT: "It's one of my specialties." 
TRAVIS: That's good to know. 
MATT: "But nevertheless, what is next, my Hells?" 
LAURA: What do you all think? 
TALIESIN: Communication. 
LAURA: Communication or trust? 
ASHLEY: Communication? 
TALIESIN: I feel like trust is last. 
LIAM: Trust is last. 
LAURA: Okay, communication. 
MATT: "Communication. Ah, come then." She leans back, and the central mouth in her chest opens up once more and the same smoke (whooshes) engulfs you all. (whooshes) As it swirls around, you feel your senses go dizzy, and then suddenly, your feet lift off, and then touch back down on a harder surface. Here, as the smoke subsides, you find yourselves now standing in a barely lit, underground chamber. There is a tall rock ceiling above you about 45, 50 feet that endlessly goes in all directions before the light gives out at about 100 or so feet, and you can make out no more shapes or designs once your eyes have adjusted to the darkness. Looking at the space around you, you can see there is a glowing orb of yellow light that sits in the middle of this round platform that you all stand on. It's an orb at first, but as your eyes focus, you look and it's textured and odd, and it looks almost organic. You also see that there're from the center of this round platform, there are three thin walkways that emerge from it in three different directions that snake and curl oddly out. You-- look about the space around you and you can hear this faint buzzing sound coming from the central glowing orb. Nana Morri points towards it. "Welcome, friends. This is a thunder wasp hive." (laughter) 
TALIESIN: What? 
TRAVIS: A horrible name. 
MATT: "But it does give a delightful glow to the area, does it not? (laughs) Just be mindful not to panic or speak too loudly. They get riled." She pulls, from inside of her coat, this beautiful purple scarf with gold threads woven all throughout it in all these gorgeous patterns, and rubs it across her shoulders, tassels hanging from the edge of it. "I need three volunteers." 
SAM: Oh. Oh my gosh. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: "Very well." She tears the scarf into three pieces. (fabric ripping) She hands one to each of you. She reaches out and touches the center of the three of your foreheads. You feel this odd warmth over your eyes. The rest of you watch the skin grow over their eye sockets. 
LAURA: Oh, gross! 
MATT: The three of you are blind. I need you to put these on. (gasping) (exclaiming) 
LIAM: Oh shit! 
LAURA: Oh my god! 
TRAVIS: Oh no! 
LAURA: Oh no! 
ASHLEY: These are so cool! 
LIAM: (as Fearne) Sometimes, when you put on eye masks, I like to get up close-- 
MATT: Actually, it goes the other way around. 
LIAM: -- and just look at you. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
SAM: We won't-- 
MARISHA: Oh my god. 
SAM: We promise. Cast's honor, we won't fuck with you while you're like this. 
LAURA: No, no, now I don't trust you! 
SAM: We won't, I swear. 
LIAM: I didn't say shit. 
SAM: I wouldn't want you to do that to me, so. 
ASHLEY: It's a game about trust and communication and honesty. 
LIAM: This isn't the trust portion. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Is it comfortable? 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah. 
TRAVIS: It's actually fine. 
TALIESIN: It's actually surprisingly comfortable. 
LIAM: Those are some cool sunglasses. 
MATT: "Very well." 
LAURA: I feel really stylish. 
MATT: "Now to set the pieces." She claps her hands together gently. (claps) A wave of energy washes out, and the three of them vanish. 
SAM: No! 
ASHLEY: Yeah, whoa, whoa! 
MATT: The three of you feel this strange rush of energy, and then you land on your feet again. 
LAURA: The three of us? 
MATT: Yes. The three that were made blind. (laughter) 
MATT: The rest of you can see that the three blind ones have now been placed on the opposite ends of these winding three platforms. 
LIAM: Oh boy. 
MATT: So we're going to start with-- Do you want to start with Chetney, you want to start with Ashton, or do you want to start with Imogen? 
TRAVIS: I'll go first! 
MATT: All right. I'll tell you what, you can bring your blindfold up a little bit, and then sit in Marisha's chair. You both trade. 
TRAVIS: Age before beauty. 
MARISHA: Trade? Okay. 
TRAVIS: Move! 
MARISHA: Here, right, don't-- Yeah, there you go. 
ASHLEY: So excited. 
TRAVIS: I don't need to lift shit! I got-- Oh! 
LIAM: Do you see the Nordverse? 
SAM: (laughs) 
MATT: Going to move this. 
TRAVIS: (startled shout) 
MATT: Sorry, buddy. 
TRAVIS: You got to give me fucking warning! 
SAM: Gentle pressure, gentle pressure. 
MATT: Let's move these out of the way here. 
SAM: This... combat cam? Is this going to be a map of some sort? 
MATT: Of some sort. 
SAM: This combat cam is brought to you by WizKids minis. Relive the Ring of Brass' final struggles to avert the Calamity from their investigation into the ritual of Vespin Chloras to confronting the corruption of Avalir. 
LIAM: Whoa! 
SAM: To battling for the very fate of an age. Pre order today at WizKids.io/EXUCalamity. 
MATT: This is your mini. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MATT: All right? 
LAURA: Are you looking, Travis? 
MATT: Place it right there. 
ASHLEY: No, he's not. 
MATT: So this is where it starts. 
SAM: He's really not. 
MATT: Now, the rest of you have to guide Travis to push his mini along this platform using just your words. If at any point he gets near the edge, I'll make him roll a dexterity saving throw or fall into the abyss below. 
SAM: Oh! 
LIAM: Oh wow! This is like "Operation" in a weird, crazy way. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
LIAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Oh, I love this. 
MATT: Here's where Nana Morri waits. 
LIAM: Ah. Okay. 
ASHLEY: Oh, look at her! 
LIAM: Chetney. 
TRAVIS: She's right there. 
LIAM: Chetney. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, you're right. 
LIAM: Don't move yet, but the first thing you're going to do is move just a little ways forward. Straight forward and not much. 
MARISHA: Just take it slow. 
LAURA: What's considered a little ways? 
MARISHA: Wait, I do feel like we need-- We need a form of measurement. 
LIAM: Pause, pause, pause, pause. Okay. 
SAM: So you've just moved-- 
LIAM: You've covered two thirds of what you need to do. You just need like one to one and half more scooches forward, Chet. 
ASHLEY: There you go. 
LIAM: Just a hair more, Chetney. Stop. 
ASHLEY: There you go, stop. 
LIAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Make a left. 
LIAM: Now, yeah, you're going to the left. It's like twice as far on a straight line. (shouting) 
LIAM: (panicked noises) (laughter) 
SAM: Correct a little. A little bit to the right. 
MATT: Now, as Orym shouts out the, "(panicked noises)" (buzzing) 
LAURA: Oh! 
MATT: The central thunder wasp hive begins to get angry. 
LAURA: What is that noise? What is that noise? 
MATT: A cluster of wasps (buzzes) emerge-- 
LIAM: That's a good correction, Chetney. 
MATT: -- and begin to coast outward where the echo was being sent in his direction. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
MATT: You watch as the swarm (buzzes). 
LIAM: Don't do anything, because we don't know what this means. 
MATT: Comes to rest angrily in the middle of the platform somewhere. 
SAM: All right, so-- 
LIAM: So it's still a straight left. 
SAM: Don't worry about that yet. 
LIAM: Just go, nope, stop, stop. You're going too forward. So correct. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
SAM: Yeah. 
LIAM: That better? 
SAM: Oh, you're going great. 
LIAM: Better. 
SAM: Just go. You can sprint. 
LIAM: Better. Do not sprint. 
SAM: Sprint! It's okay. 
LIAM: Slow and steady. All right, pause. Now you're starting to go a little bit too far back, Chet. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
LIAM: So keep going that direction. 
MARISHA: Yes. Yes. 
LIAM: Yep, that's real good! 
MARISHA: That's good. 
MARISHA: That's good. 
LIAM: Wait. Pause. Move forward diagonally to your left a little bit. Forward. 
SAM: Right and to your left? What does that mean? 
LIAM: Forward. Stop! 
SAM: Stop! Don't listen to him! 
MARISHA: Sorry. North-northwest. Northwest. 
MATT: As FCG begins to shout loudly-- 
LAURA: Stop freaking out! 
SAM: (laughs) 
MATT: (swarm buzzing) A swarm comes and begins to swarm FCG. 
SAM: What? Me? 
MATT: I need FCG to make-- 
LIAM: Don't move, Chet. 
MATT: -- a dexterity saving throw for me, please. 
SAM: Ah! The bees! (laughs) 16. 
MARISHA: The bees! 
MATT: 16. Okay. You take only 18 points of piercing damage. 
TRAVIS: Is this the tip of me? 
SAM: Oh god! 
LIAM: Yes. Yes. 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
SAM: That hurts! 
TRAVIS: That's my direction. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: The swarm scatters off-- 
TRAVIS: It's called the nose. 
LIAM: Okay, Chet. 
TRAVIS: Yes? 
LIAM: You can move just a quarter inch further towards your left. Yes. That's good! Stop! 
ASHLEY: Okay, stop. 
SAM: (laughs) 
LIAM: Now, you're going to want to go forward about an inch on planet Earth and about-- 
SAM: Forward meaning away from your chest. 
LIAM: -- two to three feet in miniature land. 
TRAVIS: Same direction? 
LIAM: But slow because it's going to start to curve real soon to the right. No, no! Stop! That's not where I want you to go! 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
SAM: Forward means away from your chest. 
LIAM: I want you-- 
TRAVIS: Oh, okay. 
LIAM: -- away from the giant that is controlling you's chest. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: Yeah. 
LIAM: Yes. Go forward like an inch. 
SAM: You can go forward four inches! 
LIAM: No. 
SAM: Yes! 
LIAM: No. 
SAM: You're fine! 
LIAM: You're doing great. 
SAM: You're still good. 
LIAM: Pause. 
SAM: Okay, stop. 
LIAM: Pause, pause. Now you want to start to curve-- 
MARISHA: Northeast. 
LIAM: Forward and to the right. What does northeast mean-- 
SAM: Two o'clock. 
LIAM: -- on this board, on this table. 
MARISHA: Well, two o'clock. 
SAM: 1:30. Two o'clock. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
LIAM: Stop. Yeah. To Travis's nose, you want to go-- 
SAM: (laughs) 
LIAM: -- to two o'clock. You want to curve-- 
SAM: Don't worry. 
ASHLEY: Yes, yes, yes, yes! 
LIAM: Yes, down a curve. 
SAM: Don't worry, Chetney. You are a third-- 
LIAM: Wait. 
ASHLEY: You are doing so good. 
SAM: -- of the way there, almost. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
LIAM: Great. 
ASHLEY: You're doing so good. 
LIAM: That's great. That's great. Stop! Now it's a straight line-- 
SAM: Three o'clock! 
LIAM: -- to the right. To three o'clock for a long time. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
LAURA: In y'all's head, you hear: You should maybe be a little quieter. 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Are we allowed to do anything with the wasps? 
MARISHA: 12 inches. 
LIAM: But we're far away! 
ASHLEY: Cast anything, or are we even-- 
LIAM: Doing good. Slow down, though, so you don't go off course. 
SAM: Just keep going forever. You're fine. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MARISHA: You're good. 
LIAM: Good! Good! 
MARISHA: Hold! 
LIAM: Stop! You're moving back too much. Scooch forward a hair. Yep. Still straight. 
SAM: (laughs) 
LIAM: Straight. Pause! 
LIAM and ASHLEY: Stop! 
LIAM: Okay, you went right to the edge, so step back. 
MATT: Chetney, you feel your toe crest just off into darkness. 
TRAVIS: Ah! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Ah! 
LIAM: Step back the way you came just a little bit. Stop! Okay. 
ASHLEY: Is this like the Squid Game? 
LIAM: Now you're going to walk forward from where you are towards your 12 o'clock from where you are right now. So just straight forward. Straight forward. 
SAM: This is-- 
LIAM: Stop! 
SAM: -- suspense! 
LIAM: Brilliant, Chet. Okay. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LIAM: We're getting close to the insects, but we're not there yet, and I don't know what it means when we get there. You want to go towards nine o'clock on a straight line. Scooch. Go slow. Nope. Nope. 
ASHLEY: No, no, no! Other way. 
TRAVIS: Oh, that nine o'clock? 
LIAM: Yep. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MARISHA: But you're on the edge. 
LIAM: Yeah. Go, scooch towards 12 o'clock a tiny bit. 
SAM: I believe in you, Chetney! 
ASHLEY: A little bit more. 
LIAM: Stop! Now go towards nine o'clock. Slow. 
MARISHA: Oh boy! 
LIAM: Slow, Chet. 
SAM: No, you can go fast. It's fine. 
LIAM: You shush, Letters! 
MATT: (swarm buzzing) 
LIAM and ASHLEY: Stop! 
SAM: (shouts frantically) 
LIAM: Stop! Stop. 
MATT: FCG, as you shout out-- (laughter) 
MATT: -- another cluster of thunder wasps emerge and swarm you. I need you to make another dexterity saving throw for me. 
SAM: Natural 20! 
LIAM and LAURA: Ooh! 
MATT: Natural 20! Okay. You take-- 
TRAVIS: I'm so calm now. 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA and LIAM: (laugh) 
MATT: -- 14 points of piercing damage. 
SAM: Oh god! 
LAURA: 14-- 
MATT: But both of your successful rolls prevented it from swarming out onto the pathway. 
SAM: Ah! See? I'm helping! 
LIAM: Okay, Chetney, in Dwarven Forge land, you're about 15 feet away from insects at your 12 o'clock. 
TRAVIS: Copy that. 
SAM: What do we do for the insects? 
ASHLEY: I know, can we-- 
SAM: Can you do something? 
ASHLEY: I'm looking. 
MARISHA: What do we do? 
ASHLEY: I'm trying to see if we can get him out of there. 
SAM: So you're going to go 12 o'clock, but you're going to go headlong into a bunch of insects. So maybe get your weapon ready. 
ASHLEY: Isn't there a-- 
MARISHA: Wait! 
SAM: Get your weapon ready and get ready to strike. 
ASHLEY: Didn't we have a-- 
MARISHA: A net? 
TRAVIS: What? 
LIAM: Stop! 
LIAM: Chetney, you are scooching for no reason towards the edge. Move back towards three o'clock. 
SAM: Get back to where you were! 
LIAM: A tiny bit. Stop! 
LAURA: Is he just scooting if nobody's telling him what to do? 
SAM: He's just moving around! 
MATT: Yep. (laughter) 
SAM: No! Don't dance! 
ASHLEY: Go-- 
MARISHA: Do wasps have natural bug enemies? 
SAM: Bees. 
TRAVIS: I'm going to use my hybrid transformation and turn into a werewolf. 
MATT: All right. (transformative tearing) You emerge into your wolf form, your eyes still covered. 
TRAVIS: Fuck! 
MATT: (laughs) But to that point, now, we're going to trade out for-- 
SAM: Oh, you have another mini right in front of you. 
MATT: This mini. 
LIAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
SAM: Get-- Get, get, get-- 
LIAM: Go back towards three o'clock a tiny bit. 
SAM: Get forward! Get forward! 
ASHLEY: Go to the right a little bit. 
LIAM: Three o'clock, tiny bit. Stop. 
ASHLEY: There you go. Tiny bit more, tiny bit. Stop. 
LAURA: Stop freaking out, FCG! 
SAM: I'm sorry! 
MARISHA: I know! 
SAM: I'm just emotionally available! 
LAURA: Go kill something, it'll take your stress down. 
MATT: Make a dexterity check for me, FCG, as the thunder wasps once again swarm out towards you. 
SAM: Seven! 
MATT: Seven. 
LAURA: Oh shit. 
ASHLEY: Wait! Orym, don't you have a wind thing to push the wasps? 
MATT: You take 26 points of piercing damage as they swarm you. 
LIAM: I don't know where we are, though, in relation to it. (agitated buzzing) 
SAM: Ow, ow, ow, ow! 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
MATT: Then they swarm out. 
SAM: All right. I'm going to heal myself. (low buzzing) 
LAURA: Where are they-- So wait, are they flying towards us? 
ASHLEY: No. No. 
MARISHA: Wait, does he have to go around them? 
LIAM: What about those Eldritch shots-- 
SAM: Just go straight! 
LIAM: -- you guys do go really far. Can you shoot the bugs from here? 
MARISHA: I can try it. 
SAM: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Oh, I got 18! 
TRAVIS: (needy howling) 
LIAM: Don't move, Chet! Don't move! 
MARISHA: Wait. Don't move. 
MATT: You hear the buzz of a swarm about 10 feet in front of you. 
MARISHA: (nervously) Ah! Okay. 
LIAM: Chet, we got you in the palm of our hand! 
LAURA: I'm going to cast Mage Armor on myself. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Good idea. 
SAM: Do you have any defensive things, Chet? 
TRAVIS: Matt, can I use Hunter's Bane to detect fey, fiend, or undead around me in case these fucking wasps are fey? 
LIAM: Fey bugs? 
MARISHA: Wait. 
MATT: Sure! You smell out into the air around you, you get the rest of that muck that was caught in your nostrils out, now that you have larger nasal capacity. Sensing the space around you, you can sense both a very, very strong fey energy in the direction of where you assume Nana Morri is. 
TRAVIS: Okay. 
MATT: The insects that are in front of you are not any of the ones you're looking for, but you can hear them. 
SAM: Here's what I think-- 
MARISHA: I have an idea. 
SAM: Here-- Oh. 
TRAVIS: Straight ahead? 
SAM: Here's what I think is going to happen. 
LIAM: Hold on, Chet. 
SAM: I think we've got to tell him the direction to go and he has to make slow, steady progress through this swarm. I don't think they'll move. He's just got to go through them, take the hits, and keep moving quickly. 
MARISHA: That could be true. 
LIAM: That could be, but why don't we try blasting them? 
MARISHA: Well, how about this? I pull out Pâté and I instruct Pâté to go fuck with the wasbs. 
ASHLEY: Good idea. Good idea. 
LIAM: (mocking Marisha) Wasbs? 
SAM and MARISHA: The wasbs. 
MATT: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Wasbs. 
MATT: (Pâté) "Don't worry, I got this!" He flies up (comical bonk) and hits an invisible barrier that surrounds the central platform. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Okay. Good to know. 
LIAM: Okay. 
SAM: You're just going to have to walk through them. 
MATT: "Oh, sorry!" 
LIAM: You're just going to have to eat it, Chet. 
MATT: Nana Morri goes, (Morri 1) "This is about communication." 
LIAM: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Copy. 
MARISHA: All right. 
ASHLEY: Copy that. 
SAM: So you're going to go-- You're going to go straight ahead forward-- 
LIAM: 12 o'clock into pain. 
SAM: -- until you feel stings and then stop. 
LIAM: Stop. 
SAM: Then, turn left and go to nine o'clock. 
LIAM: Well, that-- Mm. 
MARISHA: He's got more room on right side. 
TRAVIS: I'm moving! 
LIAM: Wait. Chet, just to visualize, once you step into wasps, you have to initially move towards nine o'clock, but then it curves-- (laughter) 
LIAM: -- down and to the left. 
ASHLEY: Left. Yes. 
LIAM: So-- 
SAM: But that's later! First, we just got to get him through this-- 
ASHLEY: All right, go forward. 
LIAM: That is the worst place for the wasps. 
SAM: -- swarm. 
ASHLEY: Go forward a little bit. 
SAM: Go to the swarm, start getting stung, and then turn left. 
LIAM: Oh my gosh! 
MARISHA: But there's more-- 
ASHLEY: Okay, pause, pause, pause, pause. 
SAM: But no, why? He's going to start getting stung. 
LIAM: Yep. You're about to get stung. 
ASHLEY: But maybe he can dance around. 
LIAM: Here it comes. 
MATT: (swarm buzzing) 
LIAM: (groans) Oh, a little bit-- 
MATT: As you stand forward, you step into a swarm of stinging thunder wasps that begin to spin around you. 
LIAM: A little scooch forward. Stop. 
MATT: (swarm buzzing) 
ASHLEY: All right, but start making a left. 
MATT: All right. Someone take note of this. You take 25 points of piercing damage. 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
LAURA: Oh no! 
MATT: And-- 
TRAVIS: Halved. 
MATT: Halved, right. To 13. So 13. 
SAM: Okay. To 13. 
MATT: While you're there, I'm going to hand you a dice, with your other hand. Go ahead and roll that for me. 
LIAM: Wow. 
MATT: Okay, that's a natural 18. 
LAURA and ASHLEY: Nice! 
MATT: As you try and instinctively-- 
SAM: (laughs) 
MATT: As you instinctively knock away the wasps best you can, you can feel yourself beginning to lose your balance, but you manage to right yourself and push through the pain. 
MARISHA: Wow. Oh no! 
SAM: Oh, plus he could've fallen off. 
LIAM: Okay, Chet-- 
TRAVIS: Now I'm coming back left, right? 
LIAM: Chet, listen to me. 
SAM: No, no. Nine o'clock. 
LIAM: We're going to throw out the clock stuff because it's going to make no sense in a moment. You're going to want to take tiny steps and you're going to go to your-- 
SAM: He's still in the hornets' nest. 
LIAM: You're going to start going towards nine o'clock, but then I'm going to start saying forward and backwards. 
SAM: You know what? Go to 9:30. 9:30, 10. 
LIAM: Nine o'clock. 
SAM: 9:30, 10. 
MARISHA: Yes, yes. 
LIAM: Tiny. 
MARISHA: Yes, that's good. 
SAM: That's great! That's great! Now nine. Hard nine. 
MATT: (continuously buzzing) 
LIAM: Yep. Slow. 
SAM: You're doing great. You're doing great. 
LIAM: Slow. 
TALIESIN: This is great podcasting. 
ASHLEY: Slow and steady wins the race. 
LAURA: The communication makes no sense to me. 
LIAM: Slow down. You're doing great. Slow. 
ASHLEY: So good. 
SAM: Oh my god! 
LIAM: Slow. 
SAM: You're so good. 
ASHLEY: Solid. 
LIAM: Stop, stop, stop. 
SAM: You're so big. You're so big and strong. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LIAM: You're going towards, I guess, 10 o'clock? 
MARISHA: No, no, no! 
ASHLEY: No, stop! 
SAM: (frantically yelling directions) 
LIAM: Eight o'clock! Eight o'clock! 
MARISHA: Eight o'clock. Eight o'clock. 
SAM: (laughs) 
MARISHA: A little bit more seven o'clock. 
ASHLEY: Keep going, keep going. 
SAM: No! I mean-- 
LIAM: Stop! Stop! Nine o'-- Stop. 
ASHLEY: Nine o'clock. 
LIAM: Nine o'clock. Slow. 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Wait! 
LIAM: Stop! Now go towards seven o'clock. 
ASHLEY: Six o'clock a little bit. 
LIAM: Eight o'clock, seven or eight o'clock. 
SAM: Rock! (laughter) 
LIAM: Yep. Yep. 
ASHLEY: Towards you. Towards you. 
LIAM: Yep, you're doing good. Keep going. 
LIAM: Stop. 
ASHLEY: Great. Stop. 
LIAM: Now go to nine o'clock exactly. A little bit. A little bit. A little bit further. Stop. All right. 
TRAVIS: The longer we do this, the more direction becomes-- (laughter) 
LIAM: Here's the deal. (laughter) 
LIAM: It's just a straight shot forward, 12 o'clock, but in 15 feet, in Dwarven Forge land, you're going to hit more bugs. 
ASHLEY: So you could just run. 
SAM: Yeah, I think you should just run toward 12 o'clock. 
LIAM: (disagreeing moan) 
MARISHA: I agree. 
ASHLEY: Straight 12 o'clock. 
LIAM: How about a brisk walk? 
SAM: Maybe 12:30? 
ASHLEY: Keep going, keep going, keep going! 
MARISHA: Keep going. Straight! 
SAM: (anxiously yelling) Oh no! 
MARISHA: Just keep going straight! 
SAM: You just hit the bugs! 
MATT: You bump into another swarm-- 
MARISHA: Run! 
MATT: As you step into the next swarm of entities, you take 22 points of piercing damage. 
SAM: Reduced. 
ASHLEY: Halved. 
MATT: Let's have you roll that dice. 
MARISHA: 22 is what? 11? 
MATT: Or 10. Hold on. 
LIAM: You got it. 
MATT: I'll get it for you. 
LIAM: 10 more feet to glory, Chet. 
MATT: There you go. Right here. Roll that dice for me. 
SAM: (laughs) Uh-oh! 
ASHLEY: Six. 
MATT: That's a six. 
SAM: (laughs) 
MATT: Plus-- 
MARISHA: Oh shit! Oh shit! 
LIAM: Oh shit! 
MATT: This was dex save. Oh no! That's plus nine. That's a 15. 
LAURA: Holy shit, holy shit. 
ASHLEY: Nice! 
MATT: So you almost begin to lose your footing at the edge of this platform as the wasps swarm you, and then you push through into a final sprint. 
LIAM: Direct 12 o'clock. 
ASHLEY: Straight forward. 
SAM: Go, go, go, go, go, go, go! 
LIAM: Yes! 
MATT: Wah! 
SAM: Yes! You did it! You did it! You killed Nana Morri! 
MATT: With that, you can remove your blindfold, Travis. 
SAM: You did it! 
TRAVIS: Oh my god! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: That was fucking insane! (laughter) 
TRAVIS: That is so much simpler than what was going on in my mind! Oh my god! 
SAM: Travis Willingham, this is your lower intestine. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Wait, were they not able to watch the whole time? 
ASHLEY, SAM, and LAURA: No! 
TRAVIS: Oh my god! 
SAM: They're having a nice little-- 
MATT: Nana Morri-- 
SAM: -- meditation over there. 
MATT: -- smiles to those who can see-- 
TRAVIS: That was madness! 
MATT: -- and goes, "Well done!" 
MARISHA: Wowzers! 
MATT: "It seems these two are very keen at communication! So why don't you sit this one out?" And both of your mouths grow over. 
LAURA: Oh! What?! 
TRAVIS: FCG and Orym? 
MATT: FCG's metal mouth slams shut. 
MARISHA: Ooh! 
SAM: Orym, too? 
MATT: Yeah. 
SAM: So that means you have to do it this time! 
LAURA: Oh no! 
ASHLEY: All right. We got this. 
MARISHA: Me and Fearne. 
TRAVIS: Fearne and Chetney, who now can talk and see. 
ASHLEY: We got this. We got this. 
LAURA and MARISHA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: We got this. 
MATT: "Which of these two wishes to go next?" 
SAM: (mumbling) 
LAURA: I'll go. 
MARISHA: But then, wait, is she going to do that again for Ashton? 
TRAVIS: That was awesome. That was so good! Fuck! That was crazy! 
SAM: Yeah. Then Imogen will have to help Ashton. 
TRAVIS: The map in my mind was bonkers! 
MARISHA: That's fair. That's fair. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MARISHA: Hmm. 
SAM: Oh no! The GM left? 
ASHLEY: Went to get something else? Oh, it's a different one. 
LAURA: What's going on? 
SAM: Oh no! 
ASHLEY: Oh! Oh shit! 
LAURA: What's happening? 
SAM: It's just a different maze. 
TRAVIS: Just hold still, Laura. Keep your hands right where they are. 
LAURA: Am I going to knock stuff over? 
TRAVIS: No, no. Matt's coming around behind you to put a map in front of you. 
SAM: Just imagine you're asleep and Ashley's doing creepy things to you. 
MATT: There's so much shit at your station, Laura. 
LAURA: I know! 
MATT: I'm going to move a little bit of it. 
LAURA: Yeah. Move anything you want. 
MATT: It's okay. 
SAM: Maybe she should just move to Marisha's station. 
MATT: It's okay. We'll move this here a little bit. 
MARISHA: That's fair. 
SAM: Oh no! They're touching your dice so much! 
MATT: No, we're touching-- 
ASHLEY: No, no, no. I'm not. I'm touching the outsides. 
MATT: -- the things that hold it. 
ASHLEY: Don't worry. 
TRAVIS: That was fucking bananas! 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: Got the mics, so sorry. 
MARISHA: You did really good, though. 
MATT: Let's move that out of the way. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit! 
MARISHA: Wow, this one's-- 
SAM: Oh boy! 
MARISHA: -- hard. 
LAURA: This is so weird! 
TRAVIS: No, you're good, you're good. You're good. 
SAM: You might want to move your iPad, Laura, too. 
LAURA: I don't know where it is! 
MATT: Yeah, it's-- (laughs) I'm going to move this back here. So. 
MARISHA: Oh my goodness! 
LAURA: What's happening? What is this? Is that my-- 
SAM: Okay, they're bringing the maze closer to you. 
MATT: That's your notepad. Indeed. I will pull this back. 
MARISHA: There's a pen under that. 
LAURA: Sorry I have so much shit. 
MATT: That's okay, Laura. 
TRAVIS: Oh fuck! 
MATT: So here is your mini right here. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: Right. Hold it there. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Don't move it from there. 
MATT: It begins there. 
LAURA: Okay. 
SAM: Okay. 
MATT: So you are now standing-- 
ASHLEY: This is going to be harder. 
MATT: -- in the middle of a precipice, blind. 
SAM: You know your wife. 
MATT: You're going to have to listen to your compatriots give you direction. 
LAURA: All right. 
MARISHA: Witches. 
LAURA: I have faith in y'all. 
ASHLEY: Witches assemble. Let's go. 
MARISHA: All right. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MARISHA: So Imogen. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: First things first. This one has a lot of diagonals. 
LAURA: I don't know what that means, but all right. 
MARISHA: Come-- 
ASHLEY: There's no right or left turns, really. It's a lot of curves. 
MARISHA: A lot of curves. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. You're going to be moving your piece very slowly with your hand, forward, backward, right-left, back-left. 
LAURA: You want me to move back-left? 
TRAVIS: No, nothing yet. 
ASHLEY: Go forward 10 feet. 
MARISHA: Not yet. 
TRAVIS: Just go slow. 
LAURA: I don't know what 10 feet is. Is this 10 feet? Am I going? 
ASHLEY: Go a touch to your left. 
TRAVIS: Go forward away from you very slowly until we tell you to stop. 
MARISHA: Okay, a little bit more. 
TRAVIS: Go forward. You can go a little faster than that. Keep going, keep going. 
ASHLEY: Keep going. 
TRAVIS: Keep going. 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: You're doing so good. 
TRAVIS: You can stop there. You're in the dead middle of the path. 
LAURA: All right. 
TRAVIS: Now forward-right, like if you were going to two o'clock. Start moving that direction. 
LAURA: This right? 
TRAVIS: Little more one o'clock. There you go. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
ASHLEY: There you go. 
TRAVIS: You can keep moving at that speed. Perfect! You're right down the middle. 
ASHLEY: You're doing so good. 
TRAVIS: Keep going, keep going. 
LAURA: All right. 
TRAVIS: Four, three, two, one. Stop! 
MARISHA: Stop! Now, almost-- 
LAURA: I'm almost there, right? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: No. Now almost-- 
SAM and LIAM: (laugh) 
TRAVIS: You're about a sixth of the way. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: The opposite diagonal, so yeah, like 11. 
LAURA: All right. Go for it? 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
MARISHA: Go for it. 
LAURA: Am I doing it? 
MARISHA: Yes. 
TRAVIS: Nice! 
ASHLEY: You're doing great. We'll tell you to stop if it's bad. 
TRAVIS: Stop. Go a little bit more 10 o'clock from 11. 
ASHLEY: Okay, stop. That's good. 
TRAVIS: There you go. 
SAM: (Fearne) Okay, stop. 
ASHLEY: Okay, go. That's great. (laughter) 
LAURA: Your mouth is shut. 
TRAVIS: A little more nine o'clock. There you go. 
MARISHA: Yes! 
TRAVIS: Two. Stop. There you go. 
MARISHA: All right, it switches back now. 
LAURA: All right. 
TRAVIS: So move to your left. Straight to your left. Stop. 
ASHLEY: Okay, stop. 
SAM: The human colon-- 
TRAVIS: Now you're going to come back towards your seven o'clock, your back left. So right towards your wrist and where your elbow are. Stop. Too much. Go a little bit more eight o'clock. Keep going. Keep going. 
TRAVIS: Good. 
MARISHA: Good. Good! 
SAM: Taliesin. 
TRAVIS: Right down that line. Right down that line. 
TALIESIN: I'm listening. 
SAM: Taliesin's just vibing. 
TRAVIS: Four. Three. Two. One. 
MARISHA: Stop. 
TRAVIS: Good. Now, you're good. 
LAURA: All right. I feel like I'm going to break this thing. 
ASHLEY: No, you're doing so good. 
MARISHA: Gripping it so hard? 
LAURA: Wait, wait! Where am I? I lost it! 
ASHLEY: 10 o'clock. 
MARISHA: You're good. 
ASHLEY: You're going to go up 10 o'clock to your left. 
LAURA: Up 10 o'clock. Okay. 
MARISHA: You're on the edge, on the north side. 
MARISHA: Like here? 
ASHLEY: Yes. You're doing great. Keep going forward. 
LAURA: Like that? 
ASHLEY: So good. 
SAM: ♪ Operation! You're the doctor ♪ 
LAURA: Shut up, FCG! 
ASHLEY: Stop. Stop a tad. 
LIAM: Got your psychic on the run! 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Go a little bit to-- 
LAURA: I'm very aware of the smell of these chips next to me right now. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: More towards your 10 o'clock. So a little further away from you. 
LAURA: Like that? 
TRAVIS: Stop. 
ASHLEY: Other way. Up towards one o'clock. 
LAURA: Up? One o'clock? 
TRAVIS: No, 11. More towards your 11. 
LAURA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: But she's off the side here. 
TRAVIS: Now you can go straight up. Straight away. There you go. Two, one. 
MARISHA: Good. Good. 
TRAVIS: Stop. 
SAM: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Now move towards your two o'clock. So forward and right. 
LAURA: (unsure noises) 
MARISHA: A little more one o'clock. 
TRAVIS: There you go. Straight. Three. 
SAM: There you go. Two. 
LAURA: Fuck off! 
TRAVIS: One. Stop. 
MARISHA: Stop. 
LAURA: All right. 
TRAVIS: Great. So forward-left towards your 10 o'clock. 
LAURA: Oh god! Okay. Like this? 
TRAVIS: You're more than halfway, so you're good. 
MARISHA: A little more 11. 
TRAVIS: Now stop. Yeah, more 11. There you go. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah. Good direction! 
SAM: It's like she's moon walking. 
LAURA: Am I going backwards? 
TRAVIS: No, you're good, you're good, you're good. 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Stop. 
SAM: Ooh-wah! 
TRAVIS: Straight to your left. Nine o'clock. Stop. Back-left towards your seven o'clock. 
MARISHA: It is. 
LAURA: Like that? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: More towards your nine. There you go. That line. 
MARISHA: Good. 
SAM: That soothing Travis voice. 
MARISHA: Good. Good. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, you're right down the middle. Keep going. 
ASHLEY: Okay, pause, pause, pause. 
TRAVIS: Perfect. Six o'clock, straight back towards you. 
MARISHA: Yeah, just pull towards your chest. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. You're going to go for seven. Six. Stop. Come back towards your five o'clock, just a little bit. More towards your chest. There you go. Keep going. 
SAM: Man, she's gripping it so hard. 
LAURA: Yeah, I know! I know! My knuckles are like-- 
MARISHA: Literally, you're white. 
SAM: You're white knuckling it. 
LAURA: I really feel like I'm going to break this little figure, whatever I have. 
TRAVIS: You can come back to your left a little bit and back towards your left elbow. Keep coming. Keep coming. Now go to your left. Hard left. Stop. 
MARISHA: Okay, it switches back again. 
TRAVIS: You're going to start going forward. It's only forward from here on out. 
LAURA: Straight? 
ASHLEY: 11 o'clock. 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
LIAM: No. 
LAURA: No? 
LIAM: Diagonal. 
MATT: You cannot talk yet. 
SAM: Stop! Penalty. 
LIAM: That was Liam, not Orym. 
MATT: I understand that, but because of that-- 
SAM: Yes! 
LAURA: Oh man! (laughter) 
MATT: A swarm of insects-- 
MARISHA: Oh! 
MATT: -- begin to buzz outward-- 
LAURA: Gosh darn it. 
MATT: -- into the space. And emerging right there. 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: All right. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
SAM: (muffled yelling) 
ASHLEY: 11 o'clock, forward. 
LAURA: 11 o'clock, like that? 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: A little more 12 o'clock. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, a little more 12. 
TRAVIS: There you go. Stop. Good job. Back towards Ashley's 10 o'clock. Towards your left a little bit more. 
LAURA: 10 o'clock? 
TRAVIS: 10 o'clock's good, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yes, 10 o'clock. 
TRAVIS: And pause. A little bit more that direction. Half an inch. There you go, stop. 12 o'clock, straight out. 
ASHLEY: Straight forward. 
TRAVIS: Good speed. 
SAM: (rapid footsteps) 
MARISHA: Good, good. 
TRAVIS: Five, four, three-- You're going to make contact, keep going. Two. Pause. 
MARISHA: Stop. 
ASHLEY: Pause. 
MARISHA: You're right on the-- 
TRAVIS: Move to your left a little bit, just hard left. 
ASHLEY: There you go. 
TRAVIS: Stop. Perfect. 
MATT: (swarm buzzing) 
TRAVIS: We're going to push you through some hornets. Get ready to take some sting. 
LAURA: Can I try-- How close am I to the hornets? 
TRAVIS: You're about 10 feet from the hornets if you were on a game board. 
SAM: I'm going to put this right here. 
LAURA: Okay. 
SAM: Just for other reasons. 
LAURA: Thank you, thank you! Yeah, I thought it might've-- 
ASHLEY: Oh, I didn't even-- Yeah. 
LAURA: Okay, where am I going? 
MARISHA: So they're about 10 feet in front of you, if you are on a Dwarven Forge map. 
LAURA: So I just walk forward? 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
MARISHA: Unless you wanted to try and-- 
LAURA: I walk forward five feet. 
MARISHA: Stop. You are base-to-base with them. 
LAURA: I'm going to Shock Flare. 
SAM: Ooh! 
MATT: Shock Flare? 
SAM: What is that? Have you done that before? 
MATT: Shocking Grasp? That, unfortunately-- You're trying to touch, so that would be a melee touch attack. 
LAURA: No, it's not a touch. It's like where I become the plasma ball. 
ASHLEY: Ow! Fuck. 
LAURA: Anything within 10 feet of me-- 
MATT: Oh, I see, I see. Let me go ahead and-- 
ASHLEY: Shock Flare? 
MATT: -- bring that up on your list there. 
TRAVIS: Taliesin's so zen. 
ASHLEY: "Batter all creatures within 10 feet of you." 
TRAVIS: I love it. 
SAM: Ooh! 
ASHLEY: "Each creature in that area must make a strength saving throw. On a failed save, your target takes 2d6 lightning damage." 
TALIESIN: This is just radio play for me so far. 
TRAVIS: Taliesin is the walrus. 
LAURA: Oh, am I close to Ashton? 
SAM: No, no-- Well, I can't say anything. 
MARISHA: No. No one else is on the board with you, except for-- 
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: You're almost done. 
TRAVIS: Wait, Matt's still looking at his spells. We can't resume yet. 
MATT: Sorry, I'm bringing this up real fast. Just a second, my apologies. 
SAM: Do you want-- 
TRAVIS: Go zen, go zen. You're good just hang out right where you are. 
SAM: -- Ashley to read it to you? 
LAURA: Yeah, Ashley, do you have it? 
ASHLEY: I do. 
MATT: Here we go, Shock Flare. Action, self. Yeah, it is self. I was looking to see if you had to have sight to see it, but you are just casting this on yourself. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Which does not require sight, so-- 
MARISHA: Smug grin. (laughs) 
MATT: All the creatures within area of you. 
LAURA: I'll piss them off, though. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: That fails its save, so that's 2d6 lighting damage to it. Okay, that's 11 points of lightning damage. (swarm scatters) The problem is, they're immune to lightning. (groaning) 
LAURA: They're thunder wasps! 
MATT: Thunder wasps, yeah. 
LAURA: Gosh darn it. 
SAM: Oh shit. 
TRAVIS: Just take the pain, you're good. 
SAM: You've pissed them off now! 
TRAVIS: So you're going to move forward maybe two spaces. Go slow. 
LAURA: Keep going? 
TRAVIS: Yep, straight ahead. 
MATT: They begin to sting and surround you. 
LAURA: I don't know what two spaces is. How's that? 
TRAVIS: Stop right there. 
MATT: (aggressive buzzing) 
LAURA: Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow! 
TRAVIS: To your forward right. 
MATT: 22 points of piercing damage. Someone write that down. 
TRAVIS: I got it. 
MATT: I need someone to hand her a d20 to roll for me. 
SAM: Oh yeah, Chet, you took 24 points. 
TRAVIS: I got it. 
MARISHA: I put your damage in for him. 
MATT: Someone hand her a d20, if you don't mind. 
SAM: She just took 22? 
TRAVIS: A regular one. 
MATT: She took 22, yeah. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LIAM: They're reaching for on all fours. 
SAM: Oh, just pick one! 
MATT: If only we had a d20 at this table. 
ASHLEY: Oh, I don't know. I want to give her a good one! 
SAM: Just pick one. 
MARISHA: Yeah, that's a good one. 
MATT: I get that. There you go. 
LAURA: Just roll it? 
MATT: Yep. 
MARISHA: Okay, which-- 
ASHLEY: 11 plus-- What do I add? 
MARISHA and SAM: Dex? 
MATT: A dexterity saving throw. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: Which would be... 
ASHLEY: Plus three, so 14. 
SAM: 14 total. 
MATT: 14 total, oh man. You start to wobble a bit, and you feel like, as the stings are hitting you, you try and move to catch yourself, and you step, and your foot hits the very edge, and you barely right yourself and continue to step forward, through. 
LAURA: Where do I go? 
TRAVIS: To your forward right at your two o'clock. 
LAURA: Forward-- 
TRAVIS: Start moving, forward right. 
LAURA: Like that? 
TRAVIS: Yep. 
MARISHA: (uncertain croaking) 
ASHLEY: A little more one o'clock, maybe. 
MARISHA: A little more one. Good, good. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, great, straight ahead. Keep going. 
MARISHA: Good. 
TRAVIS: Keep going. More two o'clock. Two o'clock. 
ASHLEY: More two o'clock. 
TRAVIS: Straight ahead, on towards daylight. 
LAURA: To 12, you mean? 
TRAVIS: Just keep driving on that line. 
MARISHA: Keep going straight. Yes, that way. 
LAURA: Like that? 
MARISHA and ASHLEY: Yep 
TRAVIS: You're home free. 
MATT: And with that, you step through. You can remove your-- 
MARISHA: Oh my god! 
LAURA: Oh, it's so bright! 
MATT: -- your blindfold, Imogen. (laughs) 
MARISHA: (relieved sigh) 
LAURA: It felt so much more complicated than this! 
TRAVIS: Uh-huh. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Yeah, it's like your mind makes it-- 
LAURA: I'm hugging Mister's ass. I thought I was holding his head. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I thought Matt put out lava and rocks-- 
LAURA: Oh my god! 
TRAVIS: -- and all sorts of crazy shit. 
LAURA: That was so scary. 
MATT: But with that, you are-- 
TRAVIS: That was bonkers. 
MATT: The skin grows back from your eyes. Your sight is yours once more. 
LAURA: (relieved sigh) That was exciting. 
SAM: That was. 
MATT: Nana Morri looks at you with a big smile. 
TRAVIS: Morpheus is ready. 
LAURA: I feel like we did a good job. 
MARISHA: Wait, hang on, because I think-- 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
MARISHA: -- Taliesin might have to move over. 
LIAM: One more to go. 
MATT: (Morri 1) "Very well done! (laughs) You two have been so helpful." 
LAURA: I want to keep this. This is such a good mask. 
MATT: Both of your mouths seal shut. 
SAM: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh, you guys? 
MARISHA: It's you two. 
LAURA: Oh, us with Ashton? 
ASHLEY: Oh, it's just us. All right. That's good. 
LAURA: We can do that, we can do that. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, easy peasy. 
MATT: I would like-- 
LAURA: Easy. 
MATT: -- to help Taliesin move over into Laura's seat. 
LAURA: Oh. Okay. 
SAM: Oh, so we should move this. 
ASHLEY: Oh, okay. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LAURA: Okay. 
TRAVIS: This shit's fun! 
MARISHA: This is so fun. 
ASHLEY: I love it. 
LIAM: There's the back of the-- 
TALIESIN: Okay, cool. 
SAM: Guys, this combat cam is still brought to you by WizKids. 
TALIESIN: If I put my hands down, is there just going to be a ton of dice here? 
LAURA: Can I sit next to you? 
SAM: Battle the fate of an age in the face of a series of impossible choices, wizkids.io/exucalamity. 
ASHLEY: Oh no, is this one-- 
SAM: I'll say it again. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
SAM: WizKids. 
ASHLEY: Oh no! We can do this. 
LAURA: How does it look like it's light coming down on it? It looks like the way you did it is so cool. 
MATT: Thank you. 
MARISHA: Okay, yeah, a little-- 
SAM: A little closer. 
MARISHA: (fortifying sigh) All right. 
MATT: So that is where Nana Morri is. 
SAM: It's the Laura and Ashley show. 
MATT: This is the Ashton mini. 
ASHLEY: Take that. 
TRAVIS: Control your-- 
MARISHA: Remember, we can't talk or wasps. 
MATT: Place him at the beginning. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MARISHA: Talk or wasps. Talk or wasps. 
SAM: What if we all just left? 
ASHLEY: Right there. 
SAM: Left Taliesin here? (laughs) 
LAURA: And you wouldn't even know. 
SAM: Just left the studio? 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
SAM: (laughs) 
MATT: All right. 
SAM: And left a tape recording of Matt saying: All right, we're almost ready. 
TALIESIN: Matt forgot to give me earplugs. You know I can hear all this. 
MATT: Yeah, I know. (laughs) 
SAM: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: And I have enough echolocation to know exactly where you're sitting. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Echolocation. (laughs) 
LAURA: All right. 
TRAVIS: That's the bat gene. 
ASHLEY: All right, are we ready? 
LAURA: Oh, and move this pen. That's in the way. 
MARISHA: This is causing me to break out. 
LAURA: All right. 
MARISHA: I can feel a zit coming on. 
SAM: Is it really? 
MATT: All right. Shh. 
SAM: Oh. 
LAURA: All right. 
ASHLEY: You're going to go forward, 12 o'clock. 
SAM: So gentle. 
LAURA: A little bit faster than that. 
SAM: So gentle. 
ASHLEY: Keep going. 
ASHLEY: Keep going. 
MARISHA: (whispering) Yeah, you were freaking out! 
ASHLEY: You're about halfway there. 
SAM: This is like ASMR. 
LIAM: Taliesin's going Ouija board style. 
LAURA: Keep going. Keep going. 
ASHLEY: Wait, stop, stop, stop. 
LAURA: Stop. Move just a hair to your left. 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Just a touch. 
LAURA: Keep going straight. Keep going, keep going, and stop. 
ASHLEY: Okay, pause. 
SAM: Is this okay with TOS? 
ASHLEY: You're going to go to the right, one o'clock, towards one o'clock. 
MARISHA: There's no feet. Oh. 
LAURA: A little more two o'clock. 
SAM: It's very pervy. 
MARISHA: (stifled laughter) 
LAURA: Keep going, keep going. 
MARISHA: We're coming for Amouranth. 
ASHLEY: A little more two o'clock. 
LAURA: Keep going. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: And stop. 
SAM: (laughter) (laughter) 
SAM: What's happening? Oh yeah, oh yeah. 
LAURA: Okay. Now you're going to go three o'clock. 
ASHLEY: Three o'clock to your right. 
LAURA: To your right. 
ASHLEY: Just keep going to your right. Yeah, good job. 
TALIESIN: That's right, isn't it? 
LAURA: Oh, he's turning. 
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, I'm going for it. 
LAURA: That's really impressive. 
ASHLEY: Good job, good job. 
LAURA: Go, go, go. You're fine. All right, wait, stop. Go a little 12 o'clock. 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: There you go. 
LAURA: All right, now go straight, straight straight. 
SAM: Full kindergarten teacher. 
LAURA: To the three o'clock. 
TALIESIN: To the three o'clock. 
LAURA: Keep going, three o'clock. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Keep going. 
MARISHA: She is the classroom mom. 
LAURA: Four, three, two. 
TRAVIS: She actually is. 
LAURA: One. 
MARISHA: That's what she was saying. 
SAM: Is she? 
LAURA: And stop. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
LAURA: Okay, you're going to come down six o'clock. 
TALIESIN: Okay, six o'clock. 
ASHLEY: Hold on. You know what, go to three o'clock-- 
SAM: This so intimate. 
ASHLEY: -- just a touch more to your right. There you go, stop. 
LAURA: Now six o'clock. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Turn yourself around. 
LIAM: He's gleaming the cube. 
TALIESIN: Might as well. 
LAURA: He's gleaming the cube! All right, now a little bit-- 
ASHLEY: Wait, wait, wait. 
MATT: Now stop there. Lift your hands. 
ASHLEY: Okay. He's on there. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: It's hard to see with both your hands. 
MATT: It's hard to see with both the hands there. 
TALIESIN: Oh, okay. 
MATT: But yeah, I'm just keeping a note. 
LAURA: Okay, how about taking a little smidge-y over to three o'clock? 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Yeah, go to three o'clock. 
LAURA: A little bit more. 
ASHLEY: A little bit more, a touch more. 
LAURA: Okay, now go six o'clock. Keep going. You can go faster. 
ASHLEY: (halting sputters) 
MATT: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Ah! 
MATT and TRAVIS: (laugh) 
ASHLEY: Go seven o'clock a little bit. 
LAURA: Seven o'clock?! No, stop. Five. 
ASHLEY: I'm so sorry, five o'clock. I'm so sorry. 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. 
ASHLEY: Minor dyslexia. 
LAURA: Five o'clock, five o'clock. 
ASHLEY: There you go. 
LAURA: That's it. Yeah, keep going. A little faster. Five o'clock. 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. 
ASHLEY: You're great. You're doing so good. 
LAURA: And stop. Okay, go three o'clock. 
ASHLEY: Three o'clock, to your right. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
ASHLEY: You're doing so good. 
LAURA: Go, go, go. 
ASHLEY: Great. Okay pause. 
LAURA: And stop. Okay, you're going to go two o'clock. You've got a long ways to go on two. 
TALIESIN: Two o'clock. Okay. 
ASHLEY: Yes, two o'clock. (halting sputters) 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
LAURA: How about more one o'clock? Let's focus one o'clock. 
SAM: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Try to-- There you go. (light laughter) 
LAURA: You can go a little faster. This is the perfect line. 
ASHLEY: You are-- 
LAURA: Keep going, a little faster. 
ASHLEY: -- doing so good. You have no idea. 
TALIESIN: I don't! 
ASHLEY: You're doing so good. 
LAURA: I'm proud of you, Ashton. Keep going, keep going. You can go a little, it's a bit farther. 
ASHLEY: You're doing great. 
TALIESIN: The two who would try and murder me, I'm really feeling the-- Okay. No, I'm going. 
LAURA: Keep going. 
ASHLEY: Keep going. 
LAURA: You can go a little faster. 
ASHLEY: Keep going. 
MARISHA: How funny would that be, though, if they were just-- 
LAURA: Walking him right off the edge? 
SAM: (laughs) 
LAURA: A little faster. 
MATT: Lift your hands. 
ASHLEY: (exhales sharply) 
LIAM: Mm-hmm. 
LAURA: He's fine, he's fine. 
MATT: Okay, continue. 
ASHLEY: Go-- 
LAURA: A little bit more. 
ASHLEY: 12 o'clock, a little bit more. Just up a toosh. 
TALIESIN: Let me find me. There we are. 
LAURA: A toosh. 
MARISHA: A patoosh? 
LAURA: Up a little toosher more. 
ASHLEY: A little more, a little more. Okay, there you go. 
SAM: Don't say anything! 
LAURA: All right, now three o'clock. 
LIAM: I'm out too. 
MARISHA: I was just repeating. 
LAURA: Straight line. 
ASHLEY: Straight, straight. 
LAURA: No, stop. 
ASHLEY: (halting sputters) Go up to 12. Sorry, that's such an annoying sound. I don't know why I'm doing it. 
SAM and MATT: (laugh) 
LAURA: Okay, three o'clock. 
TRAVIS: What does that sound come from? 
LAURA: Keep going. 
TALIESIN: This is the weirdest thing I've ever done in my life. 
LAURA: Three o'clock. Keep going. 
SAM: I don't think that's true. (laughter) 
LAURA: Okay, stop. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: I can't believe that. 
TALIESIN: Ashton, not me. 
LAURA: A little bit more two o'clock. 
MARISHA: Leeches suddenly pounce on his ass. 
LAURA: Let's do two o'clock. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
ASHLEY: There you go. 
LAURA: Yeah, there it is. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
LAURA: Keep going. You got this. You're almost halfway, keep going. 
TALIESIN: Halfway? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: (fart sound) 
LAURA: Yeah. All right, stop. A little bit more. A little bit more. 
ASHLEY: Now 12 o'clock, straight up. 
LAURA: A da da, a da da. 12 o'clock. Keep going, you can go faster. You got this, keep going. 
ASHLEY: You're veering a little bit more-- 
LIAM: Ooh, ooh! 
ASHLEY: Go to the-- 
SAM: (shushing) 
MATT: The sound of-- (buzzing) 
LAURA: Gosh darn it! 
MATT: -- begins to emerge from the nest as wayward, uninvited sounds emerge, 
LIAM: (muffled noises) 
MATT: A sense of warning, and they swarm out. 
LAURA: That's what the little wasps look like, cute. 
ASHLEY: All right, go to your left a hair. 
TALIESIN: Left a hair. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Nine o'clock, just a hair. You're getting better, you're good. 
LAURA: Yeah, okay, now go 12 o'clock. Go, go, go. Three, two, one, stop. Okay, now you've got a long way to go at nine o'clock. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Take it slow because it's a little funky. 
TALIESIN: It's a bit precarious? 
ASHLEY: It's a little precarious. 
TRAVIS: Slow and low, that is the tempo. 
ASHLEY: So good. Great speed, great angle. 
LAURA: You're great. Great speed, great projection. All right, now I need you to stop. 
TALIESIN: Ah, yep. 
LAURA: And come 12 o'clock. I mean, sorry, six o'clock. Come towards you. 
MATT: The planchette technique is strong over here. 
ASHLEY: Okay, great. 
LAURA: All right, now nine o'clock, keep going. 
MATT: W, O-- 
TALIESIN: Stop it, you fuck. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
LAURA: Let's bring it a little eight o'clock. Towards you. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Took me a second. 
LAURA: Walk with confidence, Ashton. You got this. 
TALIESIN: Oh, there's not a ton of confidence in this. 
LAURA: You're doing great. 
ASHLEY: You're going to spin all the way to your left. 
LAURA: We would stop you. 
SAM: We would stop you. 
TRAVIS: ♪ I'm dreaming ♪ 
LAURA: I can't see where the edge is. Yeah, yeah, you're doing good. 
ASHLEY: You're doing great. 
LAURA: Keep walking. 
TRAVIS: Oh damn. 
LAURA: Keep walking. 
TRAVIS: You fucked that thing up. 
LAURA: Three, two-- 
TRAVIS: (fart sound) 
LAURA: -- one, and stop. 
MATT: You almost feel the edge of the platform crumble from underneath your left heel, Ashton, before catching yourself. The sweat drips down the back of your neck and your shoulders as you twice now have been close to tumbling into an abyss you can't even see. 
TALIESIN: (nervous exhale) 
ASHLEY: All right, you're going to-- Wait, may I see something really quickly? Okay. 
LAURA: Yeah, go a little bit, a couple more steps to your left. 
ASHLEY: Nine o'clock, yeah. 
LAURA: Nice o'clock. 
SAM: Uh-oh. 
TALIESIN: There we are. 
ASHLEY: Go nine o'clock a little bit. 
LAURA: There you go. Okay, now, come down six o'clock. You got this. (laughter) 
TALIESIN: You fuckers. 
SAM: Can we just make a tape of Laura that people can put on the Calm app? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: So calming. 
SAM: You got this. 
LIAM: You curve a little bit. 
LAURA: You're doing great. You're doing so good. 
ASHLEY: It's almost like you can see it. 
LAURA: It's like he can see it. You're curving, and I didn't even tell you to. 
TALIESIN: Oh no. 
ASHLEY: Nine o'clock. 
LAURA: No, it's great. Nine o'clock, straight to your left. This is awesome, you're doing great. 
TALIESIN: That felt weird. 
LAURA: Three, two-- 
ASHLEY: Nope, you're doing good. 
LAURA: -- one, and stop. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
LAURA: Okay, now you can go 10 o'clock. 
TALIESIN: Oh god, okay. 
ASHLEY: Yes, that's-- 
LAURA: A little more 11. A little bit more 11. Then stop. Now you're going to go 12 o'clock. Keep going. Keep going, you got this. 
SAM: There's a lot of great stuff in the shop. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god, this is-- 
LAURA: You're doing great. 
MARISHA: Shut up! Shut up! 
ASHLEY: You can go a little more forward. 
SAM: We've got great deals. 
MARISHA: Shut up! 
LAURA: Go, go, go. Go, go, go. Okay, you're coming up to the wasps, Ashton. 
TALIESIN: All right. 
LAURA: So you're going to get stung. 
TALIESIN: How close? 
ASHLEY: You're about-- 
LAURA: Keep going 12 o'clock. 
TALIESIN: I'm going to rage. (growls) 
LAURA: Okay, stop. Now you're going to go two o'clock. You're going to walk right through the wasps, all right? 
MATT: The wasps, swarming, begin stinging you all over. 
TALIESIN: Mm. 
MATT: He takes, oh god-- 
TALIESIN: I had it up, so. 
MATT: You're raging, so it would be 32 points of piercing damage reduced to 16, if you want to write that down. 
LAURA: Somebody writing it down? 
MATT: Someone hand him a d20. 
TRAVIS: Got it. 
LAURA: Oh, here. 
MATT: To roll a dexterity saving throw. 
LAURA: Oof. 
ASHLEY: What's his dex? 
LAURA: Oh, where's your dex at? 
MATT: It's a plus-- 
LAURA: Dex plus three, so that's 11. 
MATT: 11. You watch as the wasps swarm around Ashton, and Ashton angrily starts sweeping them away and begins stepping off to the side. 
LAURA: Ashton, don't move! 
MATT: The impulse of emotion taking him to rush forward, and his foot slips off to the side. 
ASHLEY: Suck it up, Ashton! 
MATT: He tumbles off the edge and barely catches the side, and is now holding on by both his hands. Ashton, your feet are just kicked off into nothing. 
TALIESIN: I click on the button on my hammer, and just grab on. 
SAM: Oh, cool. 
MATT: All right. 
TALIESIN: Try and use that to get right back up. 
MATT: I need you to make an athletics check with disadvantage. 
LAURA: Is it okay if I'm giving him your 20s? 
TALIESIN: Yep, yep. I'll take yours, I'll take whoever's. 
MATT: That's a 12. 
LAURA: Okay. Oh, just kidding. 
TALIESIN: That would have gone really poorly. 
LAURA: Here you go. 
MATT: With disadvantage, so roll that twice. 
TALIESIN: Is that the same one? 
LAURA: Okay, yeah, I'll give you another one. Hold on, let me see what this is. I can't read that. 
TRAVIS: Just give him-- 
LAURA: I can't read the numbers! Okay, there we go. 
LIAM: Drop them in the cup. 
LAURA: Ooh! At disadvantage or at advantage? 
MATT: Disadvantage. 
ASHLEY: Oh. That's a one. (laughter) He rolled a 16 and a one. 
LAURA: And a one. 
MATT: Ashton, you vault up into the air and kick up-- 
LAURA: What can we do? 
MATT: In the opposite direction of the platform. 
TALIESIN: Do I know what kind of-- 
LAURA: Is there anything we can do? 
TALIESIN: Can I have a d4? 
LAURA: A d4? 
SAM: Because of rage. 
MATT: Because of your rage ability. 
TALIESIN: I want to know what rage I have up. 
MATT: That's true. 
TALIESIN: What does it say? 
LAURA: One. 
TALIESIN: That's gravity. 
MATT: That's gravity. Interesting. 
TALIESIN: Is there any way I can try and use that to propel myself in one direction, or no? 
TRAVIS: You propelled yourself in the wrong direction. 
MATT: In the wrong direction. 
TALIESIN: To try and maybe curve myself back towards the hammer. 
MATT: I'll tell you what-- 
TALIESIN: If they're yelling. 
MATT: Roll one more d20. 
LAURA: If we're saying in your head: You're falling, you're falling, you're falling! 
TRAVIS: More than 10. 
MATT: Yeah, if this is-- 
LAURA: What is this? Another 20? 
MATT: One more d20. If it's a 10 or higher, you manage to barely guide yourself back to the lip. Otherwise, you plummet. 
ASHLEY: Eight. (laughter) 
MATT: Ashton, the gravity pulls you to the side. 
SAM: And he dies forever. 
MATT: You impact the side of the stonework and glide. You try and reach, but the rock crumbles under your grasp. The hammer still locked in the air, you tumble into the abyss and out of sight. 
LAURA: There's nothing we can do to help? Is it blocked? 
MATT: Unfortunately, no. 
TRAVIS: Amazing. 
SAM: Don't get that item. 
ASHLEY: All right. 
MARISHA: You were doing so good. 
MATT: So if you'd like to, Taliesin, you can remove the blindfold. 
LAURA: Aw. 
MATT: You were so close. 
ASHLEY: So close! 
MATT: (laughs) 
MARISHA: It wasn't your direction. It was just the dice rolls. 
ASHLEY: It was the dice rolls. 
MATT: I know. 
LAURA: Sad. 
MARISHA: With that dex check. 
SAM: And he's dead forever? 
LAURA: It's Liam's fault. 
TRAVIS: We don't know. 
LAURA: He's the one that made the noise. 
LIAM: No, I made the noise. 
LAURA: That's what I said, Liam. 
LIAM: Oh, I thought you said Sam. 
MATT and LAURA: (laugh) 
MATT: So as you plummet out of sight, there's that moment of shock and silence and fear. 
SAM: (screams) No, Ashton! I mean-- (muffled screams) 
MATT and MARISHA: (laugh) 
MATT: "Don't worry, it was only a test." You watch as Nana Morri snaps her fingers and Ashton appears and slams into the ground next to you. 
MARISHA: Oh! 
TALIESIN: I had gravity up, so it's probably a big, nice-- 
MATT: Indeed, a crater hits in the center and the swarm begins to emerge, and Nana goes, "Shh," and they immediately go docile and return back to the hive. "Well--" 
TALIESIN: I didn't feel like that was me. Oh well. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Do you feel like that was us? Because it wasn't us. 
TALIESIN: No. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Because we gave you stellar direction. 
TALIESIN: Hammer? 
MATT: "Oh." She curls her finger forward, and the hammer won't budge. 
TALIESIN: There's a little thing right on the-- You can see, it's on the bottom there. 
MATT: "Ah." It comes back to you like Thor's hammer. You catch it in your grasp. 
TALIESIN: Thank you. 
MATT: "Well." 
ASHLEY: (air horn blasts) Sorry. (laughter) 
MATT: "That's two successes and one failure. Who wants to do the last possible shot? You can either accept the failure, or someone can go for a last time." 
LAURA: Someone should go. 
MATT: "But no safety nets." 
SAM: What does that mean? 
MATT: "If they fall--" 
TALIESIN: You fall, you fall. 
MATT: "They fall." 
SAM: What!? 
LAURA: Okay, so here's the thing. 
TRAVIS: I love it, I love it, I love it. 
LAURA: If nobody makes any noise-- 
SAM: I'm in this test? 
LAURA: -- the wasps don't come out? 
MATT: "If you keep nice and quiet and don't let your volume and emotions rule you, then yes, they stay docile." 
LAURA: All right. 
LIAM: I'll go. 
TALIESIN: Are you sure? 
LIAM: I'll go. 
SAM: But if you fall, you fall? 
TRAVIS: And who can give directions? 
MATT: "You pick, since the stakes are high." 
LIAM: Imogen. 
MARISHA: Yeah, she did a really good job. 
MATT: "And one more." 
LIAM: Chet. 
MATT: "Imogen and Chetney. The rest of you, take a moment." All your mouths grow over. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
MARISHA: (laughs) 
MATT: Liam, if you wouldn't mind sitting in the spot where Taliesin is. 
LIAM: Yes. 
MARISHA: So if he falls, he's gone... 
SAM: To die? 
MARISHA: -- for forever? 
SAM: (laughs) 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
SAM: Oh my god. 
TALIESIN: I'm into it. Wow, that was really hard. 
MATT: I made four of these in particular, because there's a fourth-- 
LIAM: Here comes my teeny miniature. 
LAURA: Oh my gosh. 
SAM: Oh my god. 
LAURA: Put it on. 
TALIESIN: You do have a sense of it in your head now, though. 
LAURA: Put it on, put it on, put it on, put it on, put it on. 
SAM: This is high stakes. 
MARISHA: You can't say anything! 
SAM: I'm not going to say anything. 
LAURA: Are you going to come over here, Travis? 
LIAM: It's super hard, it was so hard not to react in the slightest. 
MATT: Of course. 
LAURA: All right. 
SAM: We could just leave the room. 
TALIESIN: You could be quiet. Can you be quiet? 
LAURA: That's one way to be quiet. 
LIAM: Let me tell you a story. 
TALIESIN: NPR quiet? Can you be National Public Radio? 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: That was, by the way, so calming. 
LAURA: (laughs) Was it? 
TALIESIN: You're just doing this so fine. 
MATT: "Hold it, and then move it here to begin." 
TALIESIN: Keep moving, nine o'clock. 
TRAVIS: The good news is-- 
MARISHA: This is a short-- 
TRAVIS: The good news is that you got a little bit-- 
SAM: Shut the fuck up! 
TRAVIS: -- of a switchback. 
SAM: You just told me not to say anything! 
MARISHA: Shut up, shut up! 
TRAVIS: So he-- 
MATT: "The bad news is, I want to keep things interesting." 
LAURA: Fuck. 
MATT: Nana Morri (exhales) blows out into the chamber. Orym, as you stand there, your eyes completely grown over, in the silence, you feel this shuddering (grinding thump) in the stone beneath you, and you hear the crumbling of rock right at the back of your heels. 
LIAM: Excuse me? 
LAURA: Go fast. That's okay. 
SAM and TRAVIS: There's a timer! 
LAURA: You got this. 
MATT: You have five minutes. 
LAURA: All right, you got this. I can't see where you are. Hold on, let me. All right, you're going to start moving just a little bit to your right. 
TRAVIS: Stop. Straight ahead away from you. 
LAURA: 12 o'clock. 
TRAVIS: Keep going, keep going. 
LAURA: (gently) Go, go, go. 
TRAVIS: Keep going. Three, two, keep going, one. 
LAURA: Stop. All right, now head two o'clock and go. 
TRAVIS: Pick up your right hand, all the way off. Just do it with your left hand. 
LAURA: Keep going. You're going, keep going. 
TRAVIS: A little more one o'clock. Good. 
LAURA: And go. You can go faster. 
TRAVIS: Increase your speed. Increase your speed even more. 
LAURA: You got this. 
TRAVIS: Keep going on that line. You got it. Five. Keep going faster. 
LAURA: A little two o'clock. Yeah, keep going. 
TRAVIS: Four. 
LAURA and TRAVIS: Three. 
TRAVIS: Keep going, keep coming. Two. 
LAURA: You got this. 
TRAVIS: One, stop. 
LAURA: And stop. 
MATT: The platform crumbles behind you. 
TRAVIS: Forward, left. 10 o'clock, start moving. Good, increase your speed on that line. 
LAURA: Go faster. You got this. 
TRAVIS: Keep going. Stop. Pick up your left hand. 
LAURA: I can't see. Okay, go. 10 o'clock. A little more 11 o'clock. 
TRAVIS: To your right. 
LAURA: There you go. Three-- 
MATT: Your foot feels the edge of the walkway. 
TRAVIS: Keep going, keep going. 
LAURA: -- two, one. You got this. Keep going, keep going. 
TRAVIS: Keep going. Three, two, one, stop. 
LAURA: Okay, now you're going to come back. 
TRAVIS: Eight o'clock. 
LAURA: Seven o'clock. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, sounds good. 
LAURA: Seven or eight. 
TRAVIS: More nine o'clock. 
LAURA: Keep going. 
TRAVIS: More nine o'clock. There you go. Now back down that seven o'clock direction. 
LAURA: Back down, eight. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, good. 
LAURA: Keep going. Three, two, one. 
TRAVIS: Keep going, actually. Keep going, keep going, keep going. Three, two, one, stop. 
LAURA: Stop. 
TRAVIS: Good. Hard nine o'clock. 
LAURA: Yeah, nine o'clock, nine o'clock, stop. Let's go 11 o'clock. And, go. 
TRAVIS: Stop. 
LAURA: 10 o'clock. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, 10 o'clock. Stop, nine o'clock. 
LAURA: 10 o'clock. You got this, go a little faster. Go, keep going, keep going, stop. 
TRAVIS: Stop, perfect. Two o'clock. 
LAURA: Two o'clock. 
TRAVIS: Keep coming. 
LAURA: Listen to my voice and just keep going. 
TRAVIS: Perfect line. Keep coming. 
MATT: (thumping slams) 
TRAVIS: Stop. 
MATT: The platform crumbles behind you. 
TRAVIS: A little more 2:30. 
LAURA: Yeah, go. 
TRAVIS: There you go, hold that line. 
LAURA: Go, go. 
TRAVIS: Keep coming. Keep coming, keep coming, keep coming. 
LAURA: Keep going, and stop. 
TRAVIS: Stop. Hard three o'clock to your right. Good, drive it on that line. 
LAURA: Yes, you got this. Keep going. 
TRAVIS: Pause. Pick up your right hand, or just your fingers. 
LAURA: Yeah, you got this. 
TRAVIS: Keep going on that line. 
LAURA: Go, go, go, go, go. 
TRAVIS: Five, four, three, two, stop. 
LAURA: Go 12 o'clock. 
TRAVIS: Straight ahead. Straight ahead, two, one, stop. Forward left, 11 o'clock. There you go. 
LAURA: There you go, 11 o'clock. 
TRAVIS: A little more 10 o'clock. There you go. 
LAURA: Go, go, go. 
TRAVIS: Pause, towards me, towards your 12 o'clock, straight ahead, stop. 
LAURA: Now go nine o'clock. Go. 
MATT: (crashes) The platform gives out from behind you. 
LAURA: You can go faster, you're on the perfect line. Keep going. Go, go, go, go. I'll tell you when to stop. Go, go, go, go. 
TRAVIS: She's got it. Keep going. 
LAURA: Go, go, go, stop. 12 o'clock. Stop, now go two o'clock, one o'clock, two o'clock, there you go, that's the line. Keep going, you can go fast. Faster. Run to Nana Morri. Put your arms out. You are there, honey. 
MATT: Phew! 
MARISHA: You are there, honey! (cheering) 
MARISHA: Yes! That was awesome! 
MATT: The skin grows back from your eyes. You can take your blindfold off, Orym, as you emerge on the platform as finally, the last bit cracks and falls. 
LIAM: It felt like this. 
MATT: You look around in the black abyss. 
TALIESIN: It's horrifying. 
MATT: Just nothing but darkness and absence in the space where you just walked as you hear it fall out into silence. Nana Morri claps. "(cackles)" 
ASHLEY: (claps) 
MATT: (Morri 2) "(growls)" 
LIAM: (groans) 
MARISHA: Ah! 
MATT: "What a fine display of communication. Oh, right." She gives all the rest of you your ability to talk again. "Genuinely impressive. Well, the three of you, I gave you pieces of the scarf. Give them to me." She throws it into the darkness. 
TRAVIS: Oh ah! 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: "That was a false one. You can't tear a magical scarf in three pieces." But she does hand this to you, Orym. 
SAM: Ooh! 
MATT: As the one that put it literally all on the line. 
LAURA: Ooh! 
LIAM: "Scarf of Intrusive Intent. This beautiful purple scarf with golden accents can be spoken through to perform various magical effects. The bearer of it can cast the following spells. Suggestion once per day, Magic Mouth twice per day, Fear once per day." 
LAURA: DC is 15 for those spells. 
LIAM: 15. 
SAM: It talks to people when they walk by. 
LIAM: Yes, that's what Trent left behind for-- 
LAURA: Yes. 
ASHLEY: Is there an attunement? 
LAURA: No attunement. 
LIAM: It doesn't say. 
LAURA: He just gets to have it. 
MATT: "So far, so good. Does everyone feel more bonded than before?" 
SAM: I really do, I feel like we're learning about each other. 
ASHLEY: I actually think this is pretty great. 
SAM: We're getting closer as a team. 
ASHLEY: I love it. 
SAM: We should have done this a long time ago. 
MATT: "What's left, then?" 
MARISHA: Good work, FCG. 
MATT: "Trust." 
SAM and TRAVIS: Trust? 
TRAVIS: Ash, you took 16. Imogen, you took 22. 
LAURA: Oh yeah, that's right. Where's my-- There it is. 
TALIESIN: It says I took three already. That's weird. 
LIAM: (air horn blasts) 
MATT: She leans back after the trust echoes through the hallway. 
LAURA: How much did I take? 
TRAVIS: 22. 
MATT: "Trust, trust, trust, trust." 
TALIESIN: Did I take three points earlier? No. 
MATT: Her central mouth opens, and this black smoke once again emerges and surrounds and encircles all of you until you have nothing but the black abyss you just escaped on all sides. Eventually, the coldness gives way to a bit of warmth and the sound of birds and insects. As it begins to gently fade away, you find yourself standing in a deep Fey Realm forest. You look up and can see the canopy heavily enclosed above. 
LAURA: Canapé. 
ASHLEY: Canapé. 
LIAM: Such a weird one. 
MATT: It really is. 
SAM: Canapé. 
TRAVIS: It'll be a little bit. 
MARISHA: It'll be so long. 
MATT: You are surrounded by fey ruins, archways and walls that have partially crumbled, tall as they stand, but fallen and toppled over. You can see there's all sorts of heavy overgrowth and vines and massive clusters and places of extremely sharp-looking, thorny brambles that grow over and protrude from places and block it out. As you stand here in the center, all of you, with Nana Morri, there's a large, central well, about 15, 20 feet across, that is filled with a still, mirror-like water. "Well, friends, we're here at your final test. Here in this interesting site of lost fey history, you all learn to trust one another. There are three altars somewhere in these surrounding ruins, and upon each of these altars lays a section of a blanched ivory branch. I need you all to work together to bring all three of those back here and lay them into the water. Do you think you could do that?" 
SAM: Sure, sounds like it's easy. 
LAURA: What's the catch? 
SAM: This one's an easy one, we just find some sticks. 
TRAVIS: What's the catch? 
MATT: "Let me introduce to you some friends." She snaps her fingers again, and out of the shadows, you see these two figures, humanoid, but their bodies are featureless. Their skin is a pale gray-white. They have these sunken, clouded eyes and barely a nose and a slit for a mouth. They look human-like, but their features are a little elongated, their fingers are a little stretched, and they all emerge and look at all of you. In this still silence, they glance and read. "These are two doppelganger friends of mine, and they've been studying all of you, in and out. Two of you will be removed, and doppelgangers taking your place." 
TRAVIS: This is so good. 
MARISHA: This is about to be like a game of Werewolf. Oh no. 
MATT: "But you get to figure out who that is before they ruin this for you." 
SAM: It's Among Us! 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: And that's where we're going to end the episode tonight. (screaming) 
TRAVIS: Oh no! 
LAURA: This is so much fun. 
LIAM: You take that back! 
TRAVIS: That's so good! 
TALIESIN: Damnit! 
TRAVIS: So good. 
MATT: We'll jump into this next time. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
TRAVIS: This was so fun. 
MATT: So yeah, we have cards of you being yourself, and then two doppelganger cards that we'll shuffle in. (oohing) 
LIAM: So two people will play doppelgangers. 
MATT: All of you, it will be shuffled. It will be passed out. All of you secretly look at your cards next time. 
MARISHA: What? 
LIAM: I'll kill you all. 
MATT: It'll tell you if you're a doppelganger, what your objectives are-- 
LAURA: Oh my god, this is so exciting. 
MATT: And where some of the traps are in the map. 
LAURA: It tastes so good. 
MATT: Clues to how set it up. 
TRAVIS: This is so tasty. This is so tasty. 
MATT: So we'll see how trust works next time. 
SAM: (laughs) 
MARISHA: So wait, how is that okay? 
TRAVIS: This is so great. 
MATT: We'll go over it more next time. 
MARISHA: Oh good, okay. 
LAURA: This is so fun. 
MATT: I just wanted to give a little taste of what's coming, but next time, we'll get to dig into it before we actually begin. 
TRAVIS: Fuck! 
SAM: Matt, you're a genius. 
MATT: This is so fun. 
TALIESIN: This is so good. 
ASHLEY: So fun, Matt! 
MATT: All righty, well-- 
LAURA: (groans) 
TRAVIS: Forgot I threw my watch like three hours ago. (laughter) 
MATT: It's a good thing you recalled that. Well, thank you all so much for joining us. We love you very much, and is it Thursday yet? Good night.