List of Transcripts

Contents

1 Pre-Show
2 Part I
3 Break
4 Part II
5 Cooldown


Pre-Show[]
BRENNAN: How are we doing, Los Angeles?! [cheering] Correct! How are we feeling, Los Angeles! [cheering] Oh my goodness. Folks, have you come out to see a show or what?! [cheering] Thank you for coming out  tonight. My name is Brennan Lee Mulligan, I'll be your master of ceremonies. [cheering] 
AUDIENCE MEMBER: We love you, Brennan! 
BRENNAN: God damn, are we excited. Folks, are we excited?! [cheering] Real talk, real talk. Who thinks they came from the farthest away to see this show? Shout out where you're from. Where'd you come from? [shouting] Okay, I heard someone, did you say Australia? Who said Australia? Not only did you say  Australia, you really fucking said it, you know what I mean? (Australian accent) "Australia!" There were like five different A's in that second A. You know what I mean? It's unbelievable. Who thinks they came from the closest? Did anyone walk here? [laughter] You walked here, where do you live? Announce to the auditorium where you live. [laughter] Incredible, incredible. We've got locals, we've got people who have flown here from halfway across the world. Why? Because you're about to watch Critical Role. [cheering]
I have announcements. [cheering] There are announcements to make here and we're going to make them, okay? This is really exciting. So, for everybody here, friendly reminder. Tonight, you're not just watching a live show. You're not just here watching some goofs and spoofs. This is episode 98-- [cheering] -- of Campaign 3 of Critical Role! [cheering] We don't know what's going to happen. You could live witness a total party kill tonight. [cheering] The enthusiasm-- 
AUDIENCE: TPK! TPK! TPK. (chants) TPK! TPK! TPK!
BRENNAN: You guys are feeling the moment, but you don't see what I'm seeing, which is the eight people in the crowd who are so deep in it, that they're like, "No!" "No!" Please remember to be mindful that you are getting this episode hot off the press. [cheering] So we ask that when you, we know what you're all going to do. You're going to jump on those socials. You're going to tweet about the wild shit you saw. When you do so, please use the hashtag #CriticalRoleSpoilers, right? [cheering] Post responsibly. You'll be able to watch this back to relive the memories of this wonderful night, Thursday, June 20th at 7:00pm Pacific. The video on demand will be available for Beacon members. [cheering] Along with a live show edition of "Critical Role Cooldown." [cheering] Hear that plane? That's not even part of the show. It's live, baby. [laughter] Final announcement, final announcement, gang. Make sure, there'll be an  intermission. Make sure to check out that merch table, okay? I'll tell ya, hot cakes wish they were selling like these damn socks out here. These socks are moving, people. Don't miss your shot. Guys, can we get a little bit excited? [cheering] Can we get a little, dare I say, rowdy? [cheering] [hooting] When I say, "Critical," you say "Role!" Critical! 
AUDIENCE: Role! 
BRENNAN: Critical! 
AUDIENCE: Role! 
BRENNAN: When I say "How do" You say, "You." How do! 
AUDIENCE: You! 
BRENNAN: How do! 
AUDIENCE: You! 
BRENNAN: When I say "Want to" you say, "Do this." Want to! 
AUDIENCE: Do this! 
BRENNAN: Want to! 
AUDIENCE: Do this! 
BRENNAN: Folks, without further ado-- [cheering] The cast of "Critical Role!" [cheering] Please welcome  to the stage, Taliesin Jaffe! [cheering] Travis Willingham! [cheering] Liam O'Brien! [cheering] Marisha Ray! [cheering] Laura Bailey! [cheering] Robbie Daymond! [cheering] Ashley Johnson! [cheering] Matthew Mercer! [cheering] One last time, give it up for your cast! [cheering] 
ASHLEY: Oh, I didn't know that was going to be-- 
MATT: I am retrieving my proper drink. [laughter] (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Uh-oh, I poisoned that one. 
[cheering]
TALIESIN: Oh my. 
MATT: Set up a few things here. Okay, everything is good.
TRAVIS: Wow! Look at these faces! 
MATT: Right? [cheering] My god, this is a lot of wonderful, beautiful people. Thank you all so much for joining us. Welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. [cheering] (hollering) 
ALL: We play Dungeons & Dragons! [cheering] 
AUDIENCE: Houp! [laughter] 
MATT: Live here at The Greek Theater in Los Angeles, California. This is crazy. But we're so happy to have you all here. Before we begin tonight's episode, we have a quick announcement. From our wonderful sponsor for the night-- 
TALIESIN: Oh no. 
MATT: NordVPN. [cheering] Marisha.
MARISHA: Folks-- (laughter) The reviews are in and Nordverse: The ReVerse is the most  successful reboot of all time! [cheering] Now sure, I could be lying. But with NordVPN, you are protected from scams and frauds and I am no fraud! [cheering] So (chuckles). Let's jump back into the Nord multiverse. Following Cryptonic Override and GaleForce69 as-- [cheering] -- as they meet the Space President, in part two of Nordverse: The ReVerse. And action! [cheering] 
LAURA: We made it, GaleForce69. [laughter] Welcome to the Matrix. 
ASHLEY: Jumping Jock Jams, Cryptonic! Why does the Matrix look like The Greek Theater?
LAURA: It's hot sim virtual reality. The lights, the stage, even those gorgeous people in the audience. [cheering] Yeah, that's you. It's all imaginary. (laughs) Watch this. Hey, audience, make some noise! [cheering] Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Wow, the Nordverse sounds so realistic! And the people are so beautiful. My god! 
LAURA: That's how you know it's computer code. [laughter] Yeah, no real audience could ever look as smoking hottie as the people in front of us. 
ASHLEY: Woo! 
LAURA: What's up? What's up? Happy Pride. [cheering] 
ASHLEY: You know what? This is radder than like, a thousand John Stamoses. 
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: But how? How are we going to find the Space President in this crowd?
LAURA: Hmm. 
ASHLEY: She uses NordVPN's top quality threat protection to hide her IP and physical location.
LAURA: That's true, but you're forgetting one important thing, GaleForce. 
ASHLEY: What is that? 
LAURA: How much Madame President loves to boogie.
ASHLEY: Oh! Oh, okay. Yeah. So what if-- I'm just going to, like, throw this out there. 
LAURA: Ha, ha! 
ASHLEY: Just thought of it right this minute. 
LAURA: Yeah. [laughter] 
ASHLEY: What if we hold an impromptu cyber dance off?
LAURA: Brilliant! 
ASHLEY: And that'll draw her out from the crowd! 
LAURA: Yeah! Positronic! All we need is some block rock and electronic beats! Aw, but I didn't bring my Zune.
ASHLEY: Damn! [laughter] You know what? Not a problem, Cryptonic. We'll use this virtual crowd here to make a beat. 
LAURA: Oh, good idea. 
ASHLEY: So here, hey, hey, hey, watch this! Watch this. Okay. Wait, how are we going to do this? (laughter) [laughter] All right, let's do like this half. Let's just clap. Oh man, that's so good. 
LAURA: That's so good, okay. So I guess, then this side over here do like, um-- Beep, boop, beep, boop. I don't fuckin' know. 
AUDIENCE: Beep, boop, beep, boop.
ASHLEY: Polly Pocket, that sounds great! 
LAURA: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: Keep going, you handsome, fake audience!
LAURA: Yeah, now check out these sweet ha-ha-haxor moves. 
ASHLEY: Oh wait! Wait, we have tools. You got nothing on my terabyte tango! 
LAURA: Uh! Uh. Uh. 
MARISHA: I can't. I can't resist these sick beats!
ASHLEY: Whoa! [cheering]
LAURA: I knew it! [cheering] Are you seeing this, GaleForce?
ASHLEY: Why, yeah, hang on. I have two cyber eyes, don't I?
ASHLEY and LAURA: (gasps) She's the Space President! 
MARISHA: Yes, I am the Space President. [cheering] You couldn't find me because of NordVPN's Incogni feature, which shields your data from data brokers. But I couldn't resist the sick beats from this gorgeous crowd. The best crowd ever to have ever existed in all the Nordverse! [cheering] 
LAURA: That's right.
MARISHA: So, how can I help? 
LAURA: Oh my gosh, Madame President, it's an emergency. One that I'll have to tell you about the next time NordVPN sponsors our show. 
ASHLEY: Until then, maybe the virtual audience can help us wrap up by saying, Matt, ReVerse to you. 
MARISHA: Okay everybody, on the count of three. One, two, three! 
AUDIENCE: Matt, ReVerse to you! [cheering] [cheering]
MATT: So for those of you who are not entirely caught up on your Nordverse lore, and are extremely confused, that's the point. [laughter] Big thanks to NordVPN for sponsoring us. Go to NordVPN.com/CriticalRole. Get four extra months, try it risk-free with a 30-day, money back guarantee. We got it. [cheering] But I think-- 
ASHLEY: No, I'm so nervous! 
MARISHA: No! 
TALIESIN: Ah!
TRAVIS: We're fine, we're fine! 
MATT: That concludes our announcements. So let's go ahead and jump into tonight's episode of
Critical Role. 
♪ Critical ♪♪ Critical ♪♪ It's Thursday ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪ 
ASHLEY: ♪ One-by-one, we climb until we reach the top. ♪♪ Two-by-two, we fall. ♪ 
LAURA: ♪ Will we meet our end or meet our destiny? ♪♪ Hold your breath and roll! ♪ 
MATT: How do you want to do this? 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ Who knows what will happen? ♪♪ He might! ♪♪ But one thing's for sure, ♪♪ We never give up on the fight! ♪ 
LIAM: ♪ From the healer ♪♪ To the renegade ♪ 
MATT: ♪ We all share the same goal ♪
MATT and TALIESIN: ♪ Adding more allies ♪♪ Taking more chances ♪ 
SAM: ♪ Hold your breath and roll ♪ 
MARISHA: You can certainly try. 
ALL: ♪ It's Thursday night ♪♪ All ye Critters, come join us ♪♪ It's time to continue our plight ♪♪ It's Thursday night. ♪♪ There is magic and mystery ♪♪ From darkness, our friendship will rise ♪♪ But one thing's for sure: ♪♪ We never give up on the fight ♪♪ Oh, get ready, ♪♪ Get ready, ♪♪ It's Thursday night! ♪
(flames whooshing)

Part I[]
ASHLEY: Bam! [cheering] 
MATT: Dang, y'all. 
ASHLEY: Let's go! 
MATT: That was awesome. 
TRAVIS: Nein! 
MATT: Okay, so last we left off. (chuckles)
MARISHA: Oh boy. Oh boy. 
MATT: In the long wake of the Solstice, Bells Hells find Exandria and their world turned topsy-turvy as Ludinus Da'leth and his cadre of followers, known as the Ruby Vanguard, plan to unleash the god-eating entity Predathos that was long sealed in the red moon Ruidus. After traveling to this very moon, interacting with its people, and returning with intel on hopes to stop what they're doing, they discover that they've been sourcing ancient, long-buried Aeorian magical technology as part of their plan. And not just that. Ludinus Da'leth is there right now dealing with a strange wrinkle in his plot with the name Dominox. Bells Hells, escorted by a figure with some experience in the ruins of Aeor, one Essek Thelyss-- [cheering] -- on loan from his partner, (chuckles) brought them to the strange, northern, frozen realm of Eiselcross where the very fabric of magic is strange and prone to unexpected apparation subforces. They went to these ruins, delved beneath, discovered that the Ruby  Vanguard that had been delving within, scattered, killed, not by the terrifying denizens of these ancient dark ruins, but by each other in strange fits of almost religious madness, carving glyphs into their flesh. Very "Event Horizon" type shit. [laughter] Going towards the darkest depths of the basements of the ruins in the center of the Genesis Ward at Essek's guidance, they come upon a strange chamber where upon the ancient bodies mingling with the new freshly dead, now dangling by blackened hooks from long chains that seem to have apparated from nowhere, almost grown from the surrounding stone of the crumbled rock and ruin. They heard from some of these long forgotten corpses asking them questions through magic: hearing things of a Nox Engine, hearing that Dominox was once, or may still be, a grand demon of ancient times sealed away and harnessed for nefarious magical purpose within this Nox Engine by the mage lords of Aeor long ago, recently running rampant upon the Ruby Vanguard. Right as they discovered this, some strange visions began to come to them. First, Chetney Pock O'Pea being overcome... [cheering and laughter] 
MARISHA: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 
MATT: (chuckles) Chetney Pock O'Pea suddenly overcome with a mystical vision of a familiar darkened wood of the past and the bloodied faces of children, seemingly called from dark, maybe buried memories asking why he hurt them, why he killed them. Uncertain if this was real or not, he had to pull himself from the vision before attacking his friends. Right as they began to collect themselves, searching for the source of this strange dark magic, hoping to either find Ludinus or perhaps this Dominox and figure out what or who is the right villain in this instance, poor Dorian Storm fell to his own vision. As they pass between these hanging chains looking upon one of these hung corpses, he sees the face of his recently deceased brother,  Cyrus, who looks up at him, dead sunken eyes saying, "Why have you done this to me, brother?" And it's here in these shadows, Dorian Storm, the blood pouring from his blackened sockets here in the shattered expanse, the rest of it just a shadowed, dark blur around you, Cyrus looks towards you from that shadow. "Why? Why, brother?" 
ROBBIE: What is this? Who are you? 
MATT: "After everything, all the turmoil and challenge, I wouldn't have thought you to be my end. Mother and Father would be so disappointed." 
ROBBIE: Oh, no, no. No, this isn't real. You're not him. As I say that, even though I feel everything pull away, I can't help but be drawn into the visage of my brother. 
MATT: As you glance up towards his face to try and make eye contact, his now somewhat shriveled corpse arms reach out and grab your lapel and pull you close where you can smell the early decay on him, opening his teeth or exposes his lips curl back, the gums itself the early stages of decomposition. "Not all his lost, brother. I'm not beyond saving. My spirit lingers, haunts this realm now without peace, and I am not alone." You see these little sparks glow on the horizon around him, these other souls lost in the limbo, now in the post-Solstice era.
The hands no longer grasping you; now just touching your cheek with a sadness and a hopeful  longing. "Within this engine, a curse keeps us, brother. Free us. Let us rest, brother." As the body begins to fade, the last thing you see in his shadow are a sparking flash of a spinning purple crystal before you blink, and the body hanging before you is a long dead skeleton withered and armored in that of the ancient Aeorian guard. 
LIAM: Hey. You okay?
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
LIAM: You went away for a second. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah. I'm going to go over to the corpse and start pulling at the clothes where the crystal was laying and ravenously trying to get at where it might've been. 
MATT: As you pull through the clothing, the armor clatters off; the body breaks. It's mostly a mummified skeleton, at this point. You guys watch as Dorian begins pulling at this body, arms falling off and clattering to the ground with a (thudding) of dust-- 
LAURA: Dorian, stop, what are you doing? 
TALIESIN: That's never a good idea.
ROBBIE: Get off of me! Let me do this! I'm going to double down and now I'm rummaging through the pieces of the decaying corpse, dust in my hands. 
MATT: As you scavenge through the bones and the remnants of the skin, which is now a paper-like wispy material that immediately crumbles at your touch, it takes you a few moments before you  find nothing of that crystal, though the memory of it still lingers. 
MARISHA: Dorian, what are you looking for?
ROBBIE: I'm sorry. I-I-I saw something. 
TRAVIS: You had a vision? You too?
ROBBIE: It felt like it. It wasn't real. Did it feel real to you? 
TRAVIS: It felt-- I don't know if it was real, but it felt like a-a-a horrible nightmare. I was in my eyes. It was all I could see. 
ROBBIE: It was my brother. I know in my mind it wasn't him, but I can't shake this feeling. He said he was trapped, trapped in that machine, and gesturing toward what I think it might be, though, I don't know what anything is. He said he was trapped there with the souls of others. And, in his chest, there was a glowing something: a magic crystal. It called for me, and then it was gone. 
LIAM: We all saw those bodies higher up in here, symbols carved in them. I think we have a better idea of what happened. Any of us can't trust anything flying in your eyes right now.
ROBBIE: Right. I rise up and start dusting off the pieces of corpse.
LIAM: It's not real. 
LAURA: I'm going to come up next to you and Prestidigitation to clean the dust off your hands.
ROBBIE: Thank you. 
LIAM: I'm going to return to trying to listen down both hallways. Are we still in the quiet here? Nothing coming? 
MATT: Make a perception check for me. First roll of the night. 
ROBBIE: First roll! 
MARISHA: First roll, baby. Let's go, let's go! 
TRAVIS: Don't fuck it up!
LIAM: 24.
TRAVIS: Let's go! [cheering] 
MATT: Not too bad. So glancing down the hall where you had arrived from, you no longer hear any sort of strange shuffling or movement. It looks like whatever may have been tailing you from  the previous chambers has either lost interest or wandered elsewhere. 
MARISHA: If this entity, this Dominox is telling you that he's trapped in the soul anchor, it could be a trick; it could be a way to try and bait our lost loved ones to release him. 
ROBBIE: I'm no master of performance, but it felt like a trick. 
LAURA: Mm, I'm going to make a mistake, and--
TALIESIN: Ooh. (laughter) 
LAURA: I'm going to cast Detect Thoughts. 
ASHLEY, MARISHA, and TALIESIN: Ooh. 
TRAVIS: Okay, bye. (laughter) [laughter] 
LAURA: Yeah, I'm trying to find any other, mm, entity. 
MATT: Okay, all right. 
ASHLEY: Good idea.
MATT: As your consciousness expands beyond your own and scatters past the familiar minds of your friends, out to the space, the range on that is 60 feet? 
LAURA: That's a good question, Matthew. 
MATT: (chuckles) Just double-checking. 
LAURA: Range is 30 feet. 
MATT: Actually, no, it's just--
LAURA: Itself. 
MATT: It's 30 feet within you, so half that distance. Within the 30-foot radius of where you stand, you do not sense any other minds, conscious or otherwise, that ping your particular will. 
LAURA: It's a good thing I spent a sorcery point to double that distance, though, when I-- [laughter]
TALIESIN: He's making the face. [laughter]
MATT: I will say on the very outskirts, on the left-hand side, just barely at the range, you briefly feel the presence of something, and then it's gone; like it was within the radius and then moved out of it. This is the left-hand chamber, the one opposite of the one that Chetney stopped at. 
LIAM: Chamber left. 
MATT: I'd also like you, Imogen, opening your mind to make a wisdom saving throw for me, please. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit. 
ROBBIE: Oh, come on. 
MARISHA: Do you have an advantage? Because you juiced us up. 
LAURA: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. 
ROBBIE: Motivational Speech. 
MARISHA: Motivational Speech. 
LAURA: Wait, what's going on right there? That's not right. That ain't right, is it?
MARISHA: It's Dominox. (laughs) 
MATT: He's in your pads.
LAURA: ♪ That might be right ♪
ASHLEY: Guidance. 
LAURA: Okay. (chuckles) Yeah. (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LAURA: A wisdom save? 
MATT: I'll say in this instance because it just kind of happened Guidance wouldn't quite work for this.
LAURA: Okay. (nervous noises) (cackles) 
LIAM: Are you at advantage because of-- 
MARISHA: Do you have (murmurs)?
LAURA: I'm advantage because of Dorian. 
ROBBIE: You do. You have advantage of Motivational Speech. 
LAURA: Thank god, because that was a one, y'all. [exclaiming] [gasping] Am I trusting this dice for a second? Yes. Nope. I shouldn't have. (laughs) That's a total of four, Matt. 
MARISHA: Whoa! (chuckles) 
TRAVIS: Wow! Wow! 
TALIESIN: You're fine. 
ROBBIE: It's going to be fine.
LAURA: Everything's fine. 
MATT: You feel that ping of consciousness, and as your head turns to that side, you instinctually take two steps that direction, almost like you're chasing it to try and keep it within your view, and as you do, the space around you becomes a darkened tunnel for a second before the familiar wind picks up. (whooshing) You hear and feel something move behind you,
and you've turned a spin and you're surrounded by the red dusty winds on the surface of Ruidus. There, you see the starscape above you and the pale blue glow of Exandria on the distance. But there, you see fluttering, floating opposite you is Liliana looking towards you, your mother, her hair and braid drifting. "I can feel your hate for me, how you despise me.  All I ever did, I did it to protect you. I left everything behind for you and you still hate me, left me to be killed by strangers in a strange land."
LAURA: Now, I know that isn't true. [scattered laughter] Because I don't hate you at all. What--  I still have Detect Thoughts up. 
MATT: You do.
LAURA: Do I sense any thoughts coming from her? 
MATT: No. But she does look towards you, with a keen head tilt as you concentrate. "I still forgive you in spite of all that. If you need proof to trust me, I know Ludinus' secret within these halls, what he covets and how you can take it away from him."
LAURA: Are you in my mind? Come out. Come out for real.
MATT: "I'm right here, Imogen." 
LAURA: Stop talking, Mama. [exclaiming] [laughter] Where are you? I know what they did to you. Maybe we can help. 
MATT: You spin your head to the right, glancing around to see where it might be as the dust and red begins to pick up. From the center of the storm, you begin to see shadows emerge, six, a dozen, 30, an oncoming army unseen just beyond the periphery. You hear your mother's voice echo through your mind once more. "The Pinion, you have to destroy it. It's the only way to stop him." Right as the shadows begin to swarm you, the wind takes over (whooshing). As it passes your periphery, your eyes blink, and you're back in the chamber with your friends.
TALIESIN: That didn't look good. You okay? Where did you go? 
LAURA: No, I-I-I'm fine. I-I-I kind of talked to my mom, but not really. (groans) I can't tell it's a demon, y'all. You know? 
TRAVIS: Wait a minute. You talked to your mom?
LAURA: Well, yeah. 
TRAVIS: That's what the demon showed you? [laughter] (laugh)
LAURA: Wow. What'd he show you?
TRAVIS: I'm going to hell. [laughter] (laughter)
TALIESIN: Probably pretty soon. (laughter) [laughter]
LAURA: I asked what it needed, and it said to destroy the Pinion. It said that's what's helping Ludinus. I don't know, maybe Ludinus is working with the demon, though, and that's what they both want. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit, this has got layers. Or is it the demon saying what it wants and it's out for itself? 
LAURA: Yeah. Ludinus really does want to chain to it. I-I-I don't know. 
TRAVIS: So w-w-who would we be... Oh, fuck. Who would we be making an ally of? The demon or Luda?
MARISHA: Wait. 
TALIESIN: Wait, what? 
MARISHA: Ashley's devil... Sorry. Fearne's devil boyfriend is still here, right? [laughter]
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: Teven Klask is indeed in the process of searching the exterior of the chamber.
ASHLEY: Oh my god, I forgot you were still here. [laughter] (laughter) 
TALIESIN: How? 
MATT: The extremely tall, burly, handsome, red-skinned devil champion-- [cheering] -- with its mane of blackened hair and its thick beard, its glowing yellow eyes, its wings folded on its back over its massive dark armor, its tail flicking behind it as it seems to be sniffing the air for the source of demonic power. Not interested in the debate and weird conversation you mortals have. 
MARISHA: Um, (gibbers), d-d-devil boy...
MATT: He stops. "(grunts)" 
MARISHA: I think I already know the answer to this, but say, for example, you know, we do help this demon, you wouldn't like that, right? What would happen? Let's play it out  hypothetically. Let's roleplay. [laughter] 
MATT: He puts his hand up and grabs the blade and clutches and tenses his fist around its handle and looks towards you and past you simultaneously. "Such a creature should be put down immediately." 
MARISHA: Sure, that is your perspective. [laughter] 
TALIESIN: Side thought on that. Such a creature should be put down in about a month. We could make some chaos. Chaos could be very good for this situation. 
ASHLEY: I mean, the thing is, if I may, all right, you haven't met him, so what if, oh my god, you really get along. 
MARISHA: What if he's also hot? [laughter] 
ASHLEY: That is also a very large possibility.
LAURA: Also, you know, if we kill him now, he'll just go back to that soul anchor, and he'll still be alive, and he's really immortal, based on that thing.
MATT: "If what you say is true, and it's bound here to this day, unable to escape--" 
LAURA: Uh-huh. 
MATT: "--in this ruin--" 
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: "--perhaps it's best we leave it. 
LAURA: Oh, yeah. But, if we destroy that pinion, and then later, we destroy that demon, then he'll go back down, and then you can kill him for good, right? 
MATT: "Do you know how easy it is for a grand demon to return to your realm to get vengeance?" 
LAURA: Uh-uh. 
TALIESIN: Not really. 
MATT: "Do you want to find out?"
ASHLEY: I feel like it's probably very easy. 
LAURA: Yeah. [laughter] 
ASHLEY: But--
MATT: "You called for my aid, Fearne." 
ASHLEY: I did. I totally did. 
MATT: "Our pact has been sealed."
ASHLEY: Right, but I don't fully know what that means. (laughter) And I just, I feel like--
I feel like you got to work with me a little bit here. This is like you were saying. This is a grand demon. So we need to think of all possibilities here. I know we have a pact, and I'll do whatever-- 
LAURA: Have you asked what that pact is? 
ASHLEY: What is that? What is it? 
LAURA: What is that pact?
MATT: "You've bound your energy to that of my master, the Lord of the Hells." 
ASHLEY: Huh? [laughter] (laughter)
MATT: "The thread of fate that pulls you through the great Matron's skein now runs dark with his influence. The smell of brimstone will now follow where you walk, and when you need aid, whenever you need his help, perhaps he might be there, at a cost." (surprised laugh) [laughter] 
ROBBIE: Listen, Fearne, my parents have really good lawyers. I can probably get you out of this. (laughter) [laughter] 
ASHLEY: Okay. (laughs) Cool, cool cool cool, cool cool cool. So, but what-- What do I need to... So I can just call at any time? Do I have to do anything?
MATT: "You can, but if you waste the Lord's time, he's not happy."
ASHLEY: Oh, I would never do that. I would never waste the Lord's time.
MATT: "And be warned. Every favor has a cost, and a little part of you changes forever. Mind you, I wouldn't be against you racing into our fiery embrace below, but it seems you have things to accomplish." 
ASHLEY: I do.
MATT: "But when you're done, I'll be waiting."
ASHLEY: My heavens! Or, my Hells! (laughter) [laughter]
LIAM: We're talking about a lot of big players. We've got a grand demon. We've got Luda. (laughter) Yeah. We've got-- 
MATT: Look out and make eye contact with Aabria.
(laughter) 
ROBBIE: Yeah. Hey! 
ASHLEY: Hey! Hi, beebee! [cheering] 
TALIESIN: Monster.
LIAM: We've got the Dominox. It would be really helpful to know what Ludinus actually wants here, if he wants this thing hooked up or what, so how do we figure that out? 
MARISHA: Well, we don't even know what this machine does, this... Why don't we find it, and keep looking? Might give us some answers. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, let's start with these two doors. 
LAURA: Well, I think it's behind--
TALIESIN: Is there a third option also? 
MARISHA: Yes, leaving. 
MATT: There is a pathway at the opposite end from where you entered, but it is completely crumbled into ruin. 
LAURA: I think he's behind the left one. That's just my guess.
TRAVIS: Okay. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to walk up to-- 
TRAVIS: Remember, the crumbled one doesn't have to be a non-option, because (whistles).
LAURA: Oh, right.
TALIESIN: I can make a bad decision and possibly get us through that. 
LAURA: We're really good at going on the option that Matt says don't go on.
TRAVIS: The safe thing would be for two of us to go in each of the doors separately. (laughter) [laughter] You split it up, and then two stay back and keep home base. 
LIAM: How many hours you got? [cheering] (laughter) 
MATT: (cackles) 
TRAVIS: Left door? 
MARISHA: Left door. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah yeah yeah. (stammering) I'm going to-- I'm going to walk up to it. Sh-- (stammers) 
MARISHA: Wow! 
ASHLEY: I'm a little bit nervous, I'm sorry.
MATT: Okay, so you walk up to the left door. It is an entrance to a hallway, it seems. The somewhat curved arch there has a metallic door that's been reinforced with brass beams, and has a number of rivets along the sides. There is a heavy handle on it. 
ASHLEY: All right, it's an archway, and there's a really heavy handle on this door. Do I see any writing? 
MATT: Hm? 
ASHLEY: Do I see any writing? Anything?
MATT: No writing on it, no. 
MARISHA: Do it. 
ROBBIE: Push it. 
LAURA: Are you going to open it? 
MARISHA: Push it.
TALIESIN: I'm going to start walking up, too, just for backup.
ASHLEY: I'm going to open it, because that feels like a really smart thing to do.
TALIESIN: I'm into it. 
MATT: You grab the handle, and it resists you at first. It's fairly rusted, it seems, and as you give it a shove, you see why, as the whole thing-- (creaks) (slams) 
ASHLEY: Uh-oh!
MATT: -- hits the other side, causing a massive cloud of dust to kick up within the hallway, and as the dust separates outward, you can see a darkened space beyond, lightless, where another chamber seems to open about 30 feet beyond. 
ASHLEY: It's open! [laughter] 
LIAM: Do you have lights up right now?
LAURA: What do you want it to be? 
LIAM: Well, I want to see. (crackling)
TRAVIS: I'll go up to the door. I got 60 feet of darkvision. 
LAURA: Oh, okay. I'll hold those little balls back, then.
MARISHA: I'll follow behind Chetney. I also have darkvision.
MATT: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Just peeking in. 
MATT: All righty. (laughter) 
MARISHA: Our heads stack. 
MATT: You carefully head towards--
LAURA: Which little balls? Which little balls?
LIAM: Orym's head is at the bottom. 
MATT: Perfect. As you peek in and glance through, using your darkvision, into the next chamber, make a perception check. 
TRAVIS: Oh shit. 
MARISHA: Can I assist? 
TRAVIS: That's cocked.
MATT: If you'd like to, yeah. 
TRAVIS: That's cocked again. 
MATT: Advantage for you. 
MARISHA: Advantage. I'm assisting, I'm assisting. 
TRAVIS: Advantage? 
MARISHA: I'm assisting.
TRAVIS: Okay. Okay, great. (laughs) 
TRAVIS and MARISHA: Jesus! (laughter) [laughter]
TRAVIS: Eight! 
LIAM: Another power player. 
MATT: Eight? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MARISHA: We're going to die at the Greek.
TRAVIS: We're good, we're good, we're good. We're good. We're good. 
TALIESIN: Proper tragedy. (nomming)
AUDIENCE: (chanting) TPK! TPK! 
MATT: It's hard to see from where you're in. You can make out what looks to be some furniture, tables and such, some of which are overturned amongst the fallen, broken pieces of stonework and ceiling. A part of it's collapsed inward at an angle. You can see this massive chunk of stone that's fallen and ground into the ground, bisecting the room with this massive slope. But that's all you can make out at a distance. You'd have to enter the chamber. 
TRAVIS: Looks clear! Let's go! 
ASHLEY: Let's go in, let's go in. 
LAURA: Oh, should I do the balls now?
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
LAURA: I'll send the little balls in. (crackling) 
MATT: Imogen sends her little balls into the room. [laughter] As they glow, alighting the chamber with that low lavender light, they move over the bits of broken terrain, and you can see there's a lot of broken glass across the floor in here. These tables themselves are fairly sturdy and have all manner of runes dug into them, carved. There's nothing on them, as many of them are overturned, and what was on tables looks like it's been removed. There's actually scrapes where dust has been pulled away, like some useful and still intact pieces of machinery have been taken lately, or at least recent enough where there isn't a layer of dust where that scraped gap would be. You see these dark circles along four different parts of the chamber on the right hand side. There is another brass door on the opposite end, similar to the one that fell forward. This one is indeed closed, similar design, and there is a smaller silver door to the left as you walk in.
TRAVIS: I do an action judo roll through the door and land. With the fucking broken glass, that was a bad idea. (laugh) Do I (sniffs) smell anything with my wolf nose?
MATT: Go ahead and roll a perception check within the chamber. 
TRAVIS: Not again. 
MATT: Using your nose gives you advantage.
TRAVIS: Will it help? Yes, it does! 17. [cheering] 
MATT: Not bad. One, you smell generally in the air, there's this odd, it's almost a crude oil type smell, but burnt lantern oil as well. There's this weird chemical burn vibe in this chamber. It's omnipresent and sourceless. You do smell this particularly rank, an earthy blood iron sort of smell, but it's not quite blood. It's hard to describe, and it looks like, next to the silver door on the left, there is what looks to be a cylindrical steel drum that is partially ajar, and the smell leads you to that.
MARISHA: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll go there. Ashton, Orym, get in here!
LIAM: What's the deal with the silver door? Does it look industrial or ornate?
MATT: It looks less reinforced than the other ones.
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: It looks fairly plain, other than a couple of reinforcement bars in the center, but other than that, it's just a simple door. 
LIAM: If I press my ear to it, do I hear anything on the other side? 
MATT: Make a perception check for me. You glance inside the drum? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MATT: As you lean over it and peer past the side, the smell is somewhat stronger. It's still subtle, but you have a very, very strong sense of smell. Looking inside, you see it looks like crumpled material, almost, a dull red brown, almost a burgundy scalemail
that's just sitting there in a clump. 
LAURA: Ew. 
ASHLEY: Drink it. Taste it. 
LAURA: Twist it! 
TRAVIS: Does it look like it's coiled? 
TALIESIN: Lick it. 
LAURA: Bop it! [laughter] 
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Does it look like it's coiled in the drum, or--?
MATT: No, it looks like when you throw a piece of laundry in the corner and it clumps up. That's kind of what it looks like. 
TRAVIS: Cool. 
MARISHA: Like it was thrown in there with a body? 
TALIESIN: Then the body went away, but the armor stayed.
MARISHA: Yes, and now they're still there. That's what it feels like. 
TALIESIN: Is that the smell of chemically reduced life form that we're smelling? Does it have a goop? 
MATT: Make a medicine check for me.
TALIESIN: Fuck yeah. 
TRAVIS: Gross! 
MATT: And what have you done in your past to know what that smells like, Ashton?(laughter) 
TALIESIN: You read my bio. You know damn well. 
MATT: That's true, yeah. (laughter)
TALIESIN: 14. 
MATT: 14. Thankfully, not having experience with that, you're uncertain. It's adjacent to a blood-like iron, but it feels unique. It's not quite chemical, either. It's just different, and it makes you feel a little shivery up the spine when you get the smell.
LAURA: Can I lift the armor without, so we're not touching it? 
TALIESIN: Telekinetically? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: The thing in the barrel? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: I haven't even poked it yet. 
LAURA: If you want to poke it-- 
TRAVIS: All right, fine. Poke!
MATT: As you reach into the cylinder and go to poke it-- 
TALIESIN: Please. Please.
MATT: -- it just reacts.
TRAVIS: (screams) It's okay. 
LAURA: Okay. I'll lift it up and out.
MATT: You lift it out, and it actually looks like a cloak with a small collar made of a deep rust-colored set of scales, and it (metal clinking) clinks of small pieces of metal as you pull it out. As it drifts there, held telekinetically in the air by Imogen, it looks somewhat rusted. Maybe it's the material itself. But it's also well-made. 
LAURA: Does it seem magic? 
LIAM: Yes.
TALIESIN: We found it in a barrel with goo. Of course it's magic. 
MATT: The smell is definitely emanating from this object.
TALIESIN: We should put it in a bag. 
TRAVIS: In a bag? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: You want to put it in a bag for now? 
TALIESIN: Yes, put it in the bag.
TRAVIS: Well--
LAURA: I drift it over. 
TRAVIS: (zooms) 
LIAM: They melted someone, and all that's left is the duds.
MARISHA: The question is, does it look like a recent melting? Is this a Ruby Vanguard, or is this an Aeorian? 
LIAM: What's left in the barrel? 
MARISHA: What's left in the barrel?
LIAM: Sludge? 
MATT: Nothing. It's empty. 
LIAM: Oh, empty empty? Okay. 
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Just a stank-ass robe.
LIAM: Did I hear anything through the door with my 27 perception? 
LAURA: I'm glad we (indistinct).
MATT: You do. You hear the slightest bit of heavy shifting, the basest sound of metal on stone, and then quiet, and this very, very faint breathing, a heavy (breathing heavily). 
ASHLEY: I hear something. 
LIAM: I wave at the group.
TRAVIS: It's a door. [laughter] 
MARISHA: Real quick, before we do anything, you mentioned that there were runes. Can I read them with my Eyes of the Rune Keeper? 
MATT: Which one? 
MARISHA: Read the runes, with Eyes of the Rune Keeper.
MATT: Oh, on the tables? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Yeah, they are a very old form of Draconic used in the development of abjuration and protective magic. Looking at this, you can ascertain rapidly that these tables, while the enchantment may no longer be present, were once used to contain magical effects or dangerous volatile experiments or something that would be maintained to the table, lending safety to those that were trying things out within the chamber.
MARISHA: Yes, looks like this could've been an experimentation room, and they definitely felt the need to have a little bit of added protection. 
TRAVIS: Can I go over and do the same thing to the bronze door, before we fuck around with the silver door-- 
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
TRAVIS: -- that Orym did? Just put my ear to it. Anything coming through? 
MATT: Sure. Go ahead and make a perception check. 
TRAVIS: Yep. Fuck! Six. 
MATT: Six? 
LAURA: Oh no! 
MATT: Pretty quiet, pretty safe.
LAURA: He's dying!
TALIESIN: Oh fuck.
TRAVIS: It's clear! 
ASHLEY: All right.
LAURA: Great, then let's go to the silver door.
MATT: So you're going to the silver door?
LAURA: Isn't that the one that Orym-- 
LIAM: I'm at it now. 
TRAVIS: The one with the breathing behind it? 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah. Does the breathing sound human or beastly? 
MATT: Do you still have your Detect Thoughts up?
LAURA: No, it only lasts for a minute.
MATT: Okay, yeah, so-- 
MARISHA: We should probably knock. 
LAURA: What? No!
MARISHA: It's rude to just barge in. 
LAURA: Wait, wait, wait. I could use Open Mind, so I don't have to waste another spell slot. I'll try Open Mind. It's Detect Thoughts. With flavor. 
MATT: Okay. You do sense a consciousness within that chamber. The surface thoughts are
a layer of anxiousness, met with a burgeoning sense of self-preservation. 
LAURA: Hmm. 
TRAVIS: Okay.
TALIESIN: What do you think? 
LAURA: Do the thoughts feel people? Or does it feel demon?
MATT: From what you glean, the emotional context of it, though different than anybody you travel with, definitely feels more human-like, as Essek in the back of the chamber is like, "Are we certain we want to go poking through every doorway here?"
LAURA: Does it feel, can I ask one more question? 
MATT: Yes. 
LAURA: Does it feel like anyone's thoughts that I have been met with before?
MATT: No. 
LAURA: Okay.
LIAM: Grand demon probably doesn't feel a lot of anxiety. 
LAURA: That's a good point. 
LIAM: So maybe we should pass on this one. 
LAURA: What if it's Ludinus behind there? 
MARISHA: That's what I was thinking. 
ASHLEY: Do you want to go in there? 
TALIESIN: I really want to go-- Also, I hear anxiety. I hear anxiety. I feel like that's somebody I want to know what the fuck they know. [laughter]
ROBBIE: I walk up to the door and do "Shave and a Haircut." [laughter] 
TALIESIN: That's my boy. (tap tap-tap tap tap) 
LIAM: I just look up at his hand and face palm. What happens?
MATT: There's a long, still pause. (tap tap) (gasps) [exclaiming]
ROBBIE: Let's go. I'm going to try to open the door and see if it sticks or goes.
MATT: The door opens. (creaking) Inside a darkened what looks like a closet, there are clutters of fallen metal, jars and shattered glass, and it looks like tools and strange implements used for enchanting or other unfathomable crafts. And a figure huddled defensively against the back wall. If we could have-- [cheering] 
LAURA: Oh no, I'm going to cry. 
MATT: If we could please have Sam Riegel come to the table. 
TALIESIN: What?! [cheering]
MATT: (chuckles) That-- 
MARISHA: Bro. 
TALIESIN: Fucking mad lad.
LAURA: That is amazing. [cheering] 
MARISHA: Dude, you stole JoJo Siwa's new look. [laughter] 
LIAM: I hope this doesn't awaken something in me. [laughter]
TALIESIN: Well, a little late. 
MATT: What a fucking outfit. Okay. Sam, if you wouldn't mind describing what they see as they look within this darkened room. [cheering]
SAM: In the history of Exandria, there have been many hot minotaurs. [cheering] But perhaps none as hot as this minotaur. [cheering] Standing at 6'4", muscular, mostly black fur, except for his face, which is covered by pale-gray peach fuzz. He has long black hair, two sharp horns, and carries a twin-ball flail that seems to drip black liquid of some sort. His armor is white, save for an icon emblazoned on his chest that resembles two black horns. When you see him, you notice that everything on his body is black or white, except for the blood pouring from his throat. He appears badly injured. Gasping, stumbling. Please, please help me. Help me.
ASHLEY: Oh. 
LAURA: Eh-- [laughter] 
TALIESIN: Fuck, I've seen weirder.
LAURA: I'm so--
TALIESIN: I'm going to-- [laughter] 
MARISHA: Are you Dominox? Because if so, I told you he'd be hot. [laughter] 
LAURA: Are you Dominox? No, you can't be.
SAM: No, I'm not. I'm not Dominox. 
LIAM: That name's too literal. 
LAURA: Insight check.
ASHLEY: Ooh, good call.
MATT: Make an insight check, and you can make a persuasion or deception, not saying which, and let me know the number.
SAM: Oh, I only rolled a four, so 18. (gasps) [cheering] (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Not cool. 
LAURA: Good thing I rolled a 20.
TRAVIS: Ooh! [cheering] 
MATT: Are you Dominox?
SAM: I'm not Dominox. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
SAM: My name is Braius. Braius. 
TRAVIS: Braius. 
SAM: You know what? I'm going to do a Divine Sense. 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Just to see if these guys are evil, good, in between.
TALIESIN: Meh. 
LAURA: Oh-- 
LIAM: It's a spectrum. 
TALIESIN: I know. I want to know, too.
MATT: It's interesting. You pick up-- Huh. [laughter] Like a Jackson Pollock painting-- (laughter) [laughter] -- you pick up shreds of undead from this one, you pick up shreds of fey from this one and this one, you definitely pick up a hint of fiendish energy also from this faun and a strong fiendish source as you look past them to see, stepping into the chamber, the massive red-skinned, horned, winged entity that is Teven Klask. 
SAM: Teven Klask. 
TALIESIN: What?
SAM: That's Teven Klask.
ASHLEY: You know who he is? 
TALIESIN: You've met? 
SAM: Uh, (clears throat) no.
MATT: "I have--" [laughter] "I have no idea who this is." 
ASHLEY: Wait, wait, wait. Insight check to Teven. 
LAURA: Yeah, does he seem interested or scared? 
MARISHA: Or starstruck?
TALIESIN: A bit of both? 
MARISHA: Are you famous? 
TALIESIN: Oh. 
MATT: "I'm not even sure what that means."
SAM: Um. If you travel with Teven, I feel I can trust you all.
LAURA: Ooh. 
LIAM: Well, let's get into it, friend. Who are you? How'd you come here? I know your name now. 
SAM: It's dangerous times for a religious person, but (sighs) I'm on a mission. A mission to save my god from destruction. I've come here to vanquish the one that would unleash untold ruin upon all the gods. 
LAURA: Okay, that's-- 
TRAVIS: Okay, seems solid. 
SAM: His name-- [laughter] -- is Ludinus Da'leth. 
ASHLEY: Oh, oh. 
SAM: And he travels with a group called... the Ruby Vanguard. 
MARISHA: Vanguard, yes, they're aligned. 
SAM: They've made something known as... 
SAM and LAURA: ...the Bloody Bridge. 
TALIESIN: The Bloody Bridge, yeah. We've-- 
SAM: And they plan to unleash something known as-- 
MARISHA and ASHLEY: Predathos. 
LAURA: Predathos. 
SAM: Shit. (laughter) [laughter] Predathos. 
LAURA: Predathos, yeah, yeah. 
TALIESIN:  I'm too amused by this shit. I'm going to toss a health potion.
SAM: Oh, thank you, thank you. 
TALIESIN: Here, you take a-- Oh, you'll love this. It's four points of health because I rolled really bad. [laughter] 
SAM: Thank you. That should definitely close my gaping wound.
TALIESIN: Yeah, no, that helps. [laughter] Right there. 
TRAVIS: For your neck. The black horns on your armor. Who is your deity? 
TALIESIN: Yes, that. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Who'd you hitch your wagon to? 
SAM: Well, as I've said, religious folks like me have been persecuted in recent days. God, this is--
LAURA: It's hard, isn't it? 
SAM: It's really hard. 
TRAVIS: You're stuck on your armor. 
SAM: Stuck on my sequins. [laughter]
TRAVIS: Your dragonscale armor. 
SAM: Jesus. (laughter) I've heard of temples being decimated as far as Issylra. I don't know if I can trust you with the name of my deity. 
TALIESIN: Well, we can close the closet door again. 
LAURA: I mean, we're here with Teven, right? 
TALIESIN: We could just, yeah. 
LAURA: I mean, Teven. 
SAM: Yes, but the rest of you seem-- What gods do you follow? [laughter] 
LIAM: We've met a few. 
MARISHA: When you say "follow," there are some that we keep up with what they have going on. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MARISHA: You know? Like on social media, you know? [laughter] 
SAM: You seem very interesting.
TRAVIS: We've interfaced with the Matron of Ravens. 
LAURA: Mm-hmm.
TRAVIS: We have had a team member who was a worshiper of the Changebringer.
SAM: Ah, the Changebringer, eh? [laughter] 
TALIESIN: I like him. 
LIAM: It's a shame that they're not here. Our healer could have helped you. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Sorry.
ROBBIE: Oh, oh, uh, I can-- I can help. May I, may I, may I? 
SAM: Sure. [laughter] 
TRAVIS: Oh. [laughter] [cheering] 
ROBBIE: This is just how I expected this night to go. 
TALIESIN: This is everything I was hoping for. 
ROBBIE: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on our new friend. [cheering] 
MATT: Happy Pride. [laughter] [cheering]
TALIESIN: Yum. 
ROBBIE: All right. Wow. Three sevens for our lucky boy. 
ALL: Whoa. Let's go. 
MARISHA: Triple sevens.
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah. 21 plus three. 24. 
TALIESIN: There you go. 
SAM: Thank you. [cheering] Powerful magic from a powerful man. [laughter and cheering]
You got me halfway. (laughter) [laughter] I'll take care of the rest with my own hand. [laughter] I'll Lay Hands on myself and cure myself for the rest. 
ROBBIE: Oh! Oh, whoa!
TALIESIN: Knew it. [laughter] 
MARISHA: Crazy.
TRAVIS: Oh, come on. 
LIAM: Still better when somebody else does it. (laughter)
ASHLEY: Braius, what are you doing here in this closet? [laughter] 
TRAVIS: Goddamn it. [laughter] 
TALIESIN: What's a centaur like you doing in a closet like this? It's really-- 
SAM: You there, what's your name? 
ASHLEY: Me? 
SAM: Yes. 
ASHLEY: Oh, my name is Fearne.
SAM: I like your knees. They bend the way mine do. [laughter] (laughter)
ASHLEY: Could you maybe try to draw them?
SAM: They're backwards.
ASHLEY: Yeah, they're backwards. They go the other way.
SAM: Just like mine, yeah. Yeah. Nice hooves. 
ASHLEY: (chuckles) You too.
SAM: Thank you. 
ASHLEY: You have an extra set. (chuckles)
ROBBIE: What is happening? 
TALIESIN: The hell is going on right now?
SAM: I was here on my mission. I infiltrated the Ruby Vanguard with some followers of mine. We were sent here to Eiselcross, I guess, by Ludinus himself. 
LAURA: Wait, what? 
SAM: I saw him naught but two days ago. I was waiting for a chance to strike him down, but I never got that chance. My friends and all of the Vanguard were afflicted with some sort of mania, some madness. They went insane, killed each other. My friends attacked me. It was quite surprising and horrible. I haven't seen Ludinus in a while. I was just trying to get out of here and figure out what to do next. But thank you for finding me, giving me some life. 
LAURA: Is Ludinus still here? 
SAM: I haven't seen him in a day or two. The voices that I heard were very confusing. I lost track of time. 
LIAM: You haven't seen anything? 
SAM: Haven't seen any what? 
LIAM: Anything besides Ludinus and the people you came with. The whispers came? 
MATT: As this is happening. 
LAURA: Oh. 
TALIESIN: Oh shit. 
SAM: Ashton, if you wouldn't mind making a wisdom saving throw for me, please.
TALIESIN: With advantage, right?
TRAVIS: Oh! Oh shit, barbarian, right? 
MARISHA: It's always the barbarian. 
TALIESIN: Nah. Always the barbarian. Here we go. 
TRAVIS: You got this, you got this. 
TALIESIN: I know. 
TRAVIS: Big money. 
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, 14. Not bad for me.
MATT: 14. 
MARISHA: With advantage (pigeon coo).
TALIESIN: Oh, with advantage. Thank you. Yeah, 14, not bad for me. (laughter) 
MATT: As they're having this conversation and you're taking in the unique energy and confidence of this strange figure, you hear a rustling over your shoulder. As you turn back into the chamber, you are now suddenly within a blood red rock tunnel, as you see pieces of metal scattered across the ground.
LAURA: (gasps) Oh! [exclaiming] 
MATT: And a singular twisted metal arm crawls its way forward-- [exclaiming] -- as a slightly dislodged metallic jaw and a shattered eyepiece says, "Not so smiley day, is it?" [cheering] (laughs) 
ASHLEY: That's mean. 
TRAVIS: Fucked up. [laughter] 
MATT: (scraping) "I was waiting for you to do something. I didn't want to make this choice. Why did you let me die?" [dismayed screaming] 
TALIESIN: First off, whoever you are, you are not making friends with this right now.
MATT: "You said you've always been waiting for it. Were you hoping? You were hoping, weren't you?" (scraping) "Waiting for a chance to make me do what you couldn't bring yourself to do."
TALIESIN: Hah! Oh my god. I'm just going to walk right to that fucking little robot. I'm going to get right down in his face. Don't you even pull that bullshit with me. You know damn well how much energy I put in to getting this bullshit out of your head. So fuck you, child. [cheering] 
MATT: The cracked lens flashes from blue to red as the hand grabs the front of you and pulls it close, eye to eye. The energy of the remnants of FCG grow softer. "I cannot pass on, Ashton. My soul, the one you all knew was there, it's stuck in these ruins.  The place of my birth, the place of my eternal torment. Only you can set me free, Ashton. Find the crystal in the engine, destroy it, and my spirit will find peace." 
TALIESIN: (sighs) You know you can just fucking talk to us. You don't need to play these fucking head games. It doesn't make us like you. Make a deal.
MATT: The hand dislodges from your chest and clatters to the ground, falling into seven pieces. (clattering)
TALIESIN: And how fucking dare you? Tempted to leave you in that damn thing for this shit.
MATT: You turn around and you're back in the chamber with your friends. All the rest of you have watched Ashton talking into the air for the past moment. 
TRAVIS: Ashton?
TALIESIN: Who the fuck are you? Did you say that? I'm just-- [laughter] (laughs) Oh! Oh. Oh, that really isn't fun. (laughs) Oh. Yeah. I saw some shit. Dominox really wants the fuck out of that thing and is not asking nicely. He's not asking nicely.
MARISHA: Braius, you mentioned you follow a god. You never told us which one. [cheering] Jesus Christ. 
TRAVIS: What the fuck?
LAURA: Holy hot. 
ASHLEY: Damn. Sir!
TRAVIS: They can get it. 
LAURA: Okay. 
TALIESIN:  Yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: All right.
SAM: Let's-- (inaudible audience member) (laughter) In my youth, I pledged myself to the Platinum Dragon. 
TRAVIS: Insight check?
MATT: Make an insight check.
TALIESIN: I mean, they've got the vibe.
TRAVIS: (scatting) 20, I have fucking good insight, 24. [laughter] 
SAM: 33. 
LAURA: Oh! [exclaiming] [laughter] 
MATT: You believe him. 
ASHLEY: But you said in your youth, so did it change as you've gotten-- 
SAM: There's danger all around us. We should press on. [laughter] (laughter)
MATT: Essek scoots into the side. 
MATT: Oh, that's right, he's still here. [laughter]
MATT: He's just like... "I do not mean to intrude, but you've apparently acquired a rather large... Ally? Enemy? Do we smite them? What is the plan here? I'm very confused." [laughter] 
TRAVIS: I think he's with us. He's trying to keep his god from being struck down, which is in the same value line that we shared with FCG and what we're doing, so until he proves himself an enemy. 
MATT: Teven steps forward, pushing past Essek with his massive devilish hand, steps forward. "If at any moment you show a slight sign of turning against me and her, I will cut you down in an instant." [excited noises] [laughter] 
TALIESIN: I feel like there's an energy. 
MARISHA: There's no need for that. 
SAM: Lord Klask, you do not have to threaten me. I will do whatever you ask. And she's with you? 
MATT: "(sniffing)"
ASHLEY: Well, I mean, that, that, that's... [laughter] Not entirely. 
MARISHA: Fearne!
SAM: Are you two... [laughter] 
ASHLEY: No. 
MATT: "We are bound, yes." 
ASHLEY: Well... [exclaiming] 
SAM: Understood, I'm sorry for speaking to her.
TALIESIN: (giggles) 
ASHLEY: But, oh, yes, we're very-- 
MARISHA: Lean into it. 
ASHLEY: Yes, we're bound. We're so bound. 
MARISHA: Two men fighting over you. This is awesome! 
TALIESIN: Every moment of this is hilarious. 
ASHLEY: We're very, very, we're so bound, very bound.
MATT: "I'm also bound to many." 
LAURA: Oh. 
LIAM: Oh, well... 
SAM: Of course.
ASHLEY: That's totally fine because so am I. [laughter] [cheering]
SAM: What are you all called? Do you have a name?
LAURA: Yeah, we're Bells Hells.
TALIESIN: Yes. [cheering]
SAM: Hells? I think I'm going to like you. 
TRAVIS: Oh fuck. [laughter] Goddamn it. 
LIAM: Braius, you said you were heading out, we're heading in. Can you hang with that? 
SAM: He picks up his flail and his shield. Let's go. [laughter]  
ROBBIE: This is so fun. It's almost like he was built for us. (laughter) 
LAURA: But wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. The symbol on his chest, does it look familiar at all? Does it seem like-- 
MATT: Make a religion check. 
LAURA: Okay. Okay. 
TALIESIN: I have theories.
LAURA: (tongue trilling) Five. [laughter] 
MATT: Not particularly, you're a country girl. 
SAM: Those are the-- 
LAURA: I was a country girl. 
SAM: Those are the horns of the Platinum Dragon. [Laughter] 
LAURA: I-- I feel like that's not-- 
SAM: Has two horns.
TALIESIN: Do they? 
TRAVIS: Two black horns. 
ASHLEY: You did say earlier that you had followers. Am I misinterpreting that? 
SAM: I am the herald champion of my god.
TALIESIN: You have a cult, oh, yeah.
LAURA: Another champion. We got multiple here. 
SAM: There's another champion here?
LAURA: Yeah, Teven. 
SAM: Well, yes, of course, but he's beyond champion. He's, I mean, he's like a--
TRAVIS: Oh my god. [laughter] 
MATT: Teven leans in closer. "(sniffing) This is no champion," and walks back into the chamber. 
SAM: It's a herald champion. It's a lower-lower level. [laughter] We serve functions,
but aren't quite recognized the same way. 
LAURA: Oh...
ROBBIE: Don't let him intimidate you, stand up for yourself.
SAM: No, he's fucking amazing. 
ROBBIE: I know you like him, but this is a chance for you to meet on equal ground. Stand up for yourself. 
SAM: You're right, you're right.
MATT: Essek still floating in the back of the chamber goes, "All right, well." [laughter] "You may want to see this." 
LAURA: Oh god. 
TRAVIS: What'd you find? 
MATT: You see he points his finger over from beneath his fur coat towards the walls of the chamber outside of that other brass door and there are these foot-wide, black, they look like windows, like portholes almost, and he just drifts, leaning towards it.
TRAVIS: Oh, those are, is there any writing around them? 
MATT: No writing around them, but they are open.
TRAVIS: Can I peek in? 
MATT: You peek through and you realize there is a glass there, there is a protective thick glass.
TRAVIS: Thank fuck. 
MATT: As you look into, below you, a large square-looking sunken chamber with three elevated platforms about 10 feet off the ground. You see fallen rubble and the roof is slightly off kilter. You see so many chains strewn across the floor and the walls tangled and pushed into each other, woven chaotically around. You see these glowing massive glyphs on the ground that pulse in unison. In the very center of this chamber is a 25-foot tall cylindrical machine that itself completely consumes the center of the room. You can almost feel the vibration
in the wall and the proximity. (wall vibrating, pulsing) As it does that, you can see bits of crackling energy that spark off to these spires around us, these multitudes of Aeorian tech spires throughout the center chamber, and in the middle of it hovering in the air and slowly rotating, you see this quad-spire platform that is spinning in the air and in the middle, pulsing, a small purple crystal. 
TRAVIS: It's just another closet. We can leave this one alone. [laughter] This is the engine room, I think. You can take a look for yourself. There's the crystal you all saw.
TALIESIN: Yep. Yeah. 
SAM: You know what this crystal is?
LAURA: It's a soul anchor. 
SAM: The what? 
TRAVIS: The Pinion?
LIAM: Pinion of Service. 
TRAVIS: The thing holding--
LIAM: Yeah, the thing down here, Dominox, that we've been referring to. How do you feel about grand demons? 
SAM: How do I feel about demons? 
LIAM: Big ones.
TALIESIN: Big demons. 
SAM: Whew. [laughter] They're bad? [laughter] 
ROBBIE: I've literally never done this. Insight check. [laughter] 
TRAVIS: You always remember your first. 
MARISHA: The most trusting boy.
MATT: Go ahead and roll an insight check, and Braius, roll deception or persuasion, just don't say which one. 
ROBBIE: 13. 
SAM: 28. [laughter] You know you're not going to mess with a bard, buddy. [laughter] 
TALIESIN: Wow.
LAURA: But, you said, most people don't like demons and devils.
SAM: Wait, there's a difference? (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Oh Jesus. 
ASHLEY: I actually didn't know that either, so.
TRAVIS: Okay, let's focus up here. This is the engine room. There's a shitload of chains. The purple crystal's in there. There's a door. Is it locked? 
LIAM: Yeah, I'm sidling up by Chetney and peeking in, too. Is anything, is any entity, being, anything that looks alive or unalive moving around in there? 
MATT: Both of you roll perception. Or one of you with advantage. 
TRAVIS: I will fucking assist. [laughter] 
LIAM: That's a 32. [cheering] 
ASHLEY: Nice. 
MATT: You glance in the chamber, and aside from the occasional (energy sparking) sparking of energy that seems to be emanating from this engine machine in the center, you don't see any entities, you don't see anything moving other than the occasional slithering shift of some of the chains across the floor.
LAURA and LIAM: Uhh...
MARISHA: Do we see the chains... I peek my head in. Do I see the chains going, feeding outward? Can we assume that these are the same chains that were going out to that center chamber? 
MATT: You see many of them scattered around the ground like roots from a tree breaking from the center of the engine machinery. You also see chains dangling out of nearby corners and walls. It's like a chaotic spiderweb of chains in parts of the room. 
MARISHA: And another question. Do we have any idea what this machine was powering in Aeor? Is there some sort of check? 
LAURA: Just like a plaque? 
MATT: You could make an arcana-- 
MARISHA: Is there a plaque? Is there something that says--
TALIESIN: Essek, anything? 
MARISHA: Just says it out loud? 
MATT: There's no plaque, but you can make an arcana check, if you'd like.
LIAM: Let's go, caster. 
TRAVIS: "Established in 2."
MARISHA: (laughing) "Established in 2." 
LAURA: You were here, right, Braius? You were here with Ludinus? 
SAM: He was in Aeor with us briefly, yes, but not in this room, exactly. 
LAURA: But you knew of his plans?
SAM: No, we were just to come here and aid him in something. I wasn't paying much attention because I was trying to kill him the whole time. 
LAURA: Right, right, right. 
TALIESIN: You're supposed to be paying attention, though, if you're trying to kill somebody. That's the whole-- 
SAM: That's maybe why I didn't succeed. [laughter]
TALIESIN: You're very pretty. [laughter] 
SAM: Thank you, so are you. [laughter]
TALIESIN: I know. [laughter] 
TRAVIS: Focus! Focus! 
TALIESIN: Right. [laughter]
TRAVIS: Fuck! 
MARISHA: 24. 
MATT: 24. Glancing into the chamber with Orym leading your vision through this porthole as well, you can see there are two entrances towards the, or at least one entrance you can see near the floor on the direction that would connect with a curved staircase to the brass door that's to your left, so you can see where that would be that, if those connect, that would be an entrance to the actual chamber. You also see, Orym, there's a large double brass door on the opposite side of the chamber, tall, 15-foot tall doors, as well as two other exits that are completely collapsed inward with shards of metal and broken doors. 
LIAM: Do those look blasted out or in? 
MATT: They look like they're collapsed, like parts of the wall have fallen in and parts of the metallic structure of this chamber amongst the stonework has cut them off. 
LIAM: So crash dat. 
MATT: You, looking at these glyphs on the ground, best you can ascertain, part of this is a containment abjuration and other facets have a transmutation for the purpose of manipulating and extracting power.
MARISHA: Fucking, we already knew that. 
TRAVIS: Good to remember, though. 
MARISHA: All right.
MATT: Maybe a little more information-- [laughter] -- with a slightly higher roll, unfortunately.
LAURA and TALIESIN: (groan) 
TALIESIN: So I suppose my question is, do you think this is something we can... I want to be able to make a bargain with this thing. We got to be careful if we're going to let it out. We got to be very, very careful.
TRAVIS: Is the door locked? 
MATT: You go and reach the heavy brass handle and it creaks, but (creaking) it opens. 
TRAVIS: It's not locked. [laughter]
TALIESIN: No, don't open it. 
LAURA: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. 
TRAVIS: What? What? What? 
LAURA: The whole point of us coming here was to delay Ludinus. So if we let this thing free, aren't we just helping him? 
TRAVIS: It's hard to know. Like is Dominox delaying Ludinus, or if we let Dominox out, can he help us fuck with Ludinus? Where is Ludinus? 
LAURA: Where is Ludinus? 
MARISHA: Where is Ludinus? 
LIAM: Braius, what's the last you saw of Ludinus again? It's the last moments, what happened? 
SAM: Well, everything was a bit hectic because I was having visions of things that weren't real,
voices in my head and maybe a godly GM voice will tell me what the last thing I saw was. (laughter)
MATT: The last thing you saw before you fled into that silver door chamber. 
SAM: I think you mean tact-- 
MATT: Tactically retreated. 
SAM: Tactically retreated, yes, thank you. (laughter)
MATT: Was the recent bastion of Vanguard escorting Ludinus this deep into the ruins upon his arrival, like you were part of his entry troop into these ruins, was him attempting to save those around as they began to tear at each other. He himself briefly shook his head and then went towards the engine room and that's the last you saw. 
SAM: And then went towards the engine room and that's the last I saw. 
LAURA: He could be in here. 
MARISHA: So he had a very intent interest in this machine. He wanted it? 
SAM: He did. He seemed to, or the room, or something in it.
LAURA: Aww.
TALIESIN: I want to break it. I just want to fucking break it.
MARISHA: You want to break what? 
TRAVIS: Break what?
TALIESIN: It solves so many problems so often. 
TRAVIS: You want to break the engine? 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Okay, let go.
TALIESIN: That's my immediate thought. This thing looks complicated and dangerous, so you hit it till you can't put it back together anymore. 
ROBBIE: If the fear is releasing Dominox and he powers the engine, if the engine's gone, why do we have to worry about Dominox? 
TALIESIN: Well... Mm. Sometimes we just don't know; that thing inside has been there for a very long time, is very angry and may not actually be listening to reason, nor may be grateful that it got let out. It might just be feral at this point, and I don't know if I want to handle something feral.
ROBBIE: Are you telling me you're afraid of a fight?
AUDIENCE: Ooh. [oohing]
TALIESIN: I'm not-- I'm never afraid of a fight, I'm afraid of losing, and that feels like a losing fucking battle.
MATT: As you point out through the porthole where there was once an empty chamber, you now see standing in the middle near the base where that crystal is, a small girl. 
MARISHA and LAURA: Ah. 
MATT: Maybe-- 
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: Maybe five-- [laughter] -- six years old. 
ASHLEY: That's not a good sign.
LAURA: Bye, baby. 
TALIESIN: Bye, Travis. [laughter and clapping]
LAURA: With RTA across his ass. 
ASHLEY: I know. (laughter)
TALIESIN: I'm feeling better about our odds. 
MARISHA: Do we all see this little girl?
MATT: As you point it out, yes, indeed, the little girl's in there, just looking up, beneath-- 
LAURA: Is she looking at us? 
MATT: This long red, deep red hair.
TALIESIN: I'm going to step up to the door, just at the edge of the door. Hey, you want to talk? [laughter]
LIAM: Everybody get ready. [laughter] 
MATT: All of you hear sourcelessly through your minds and shaking the very air around your ears, "Yes." [laughter]
TALIESIN: Let's make a deal. [laughter] Are you Dominox or are you someone else?
MATT: "I am called Dominox, yes."
MARISHA: Tee hee hee. [laughter] 
LAURA: Kind of cute. 
MARISHA: I know, she's fun-scary! [laughter] 
LIAM: What's the ratio, though, Laudna, what's the ratio?
MARISHA: Dominox, sweetie. [laughter] 
MATT: "Where are you? I can't see you."
MARISHA: I'm right here. Can you see me? I tap on the glass like I'm an annoying kid at an aquarium. Tap, tap, tap, tap. 
MATT: The little girl looks around open to the space. "I can't see you. It's dark in here." 
MARISHA: Okay, well, honestly, you don't need to see me. You just need to hear us for a moment. So listen, we are trying to fight a really bad man and it is a really bad man who wanted to use you and exploit you, and you know, if we, like, let you go, you can have your revenge. 
MATT: "I would like that very much." 
MARISHA: But, but, but! You can't, we're good. We're the good people, so you can't do anything mean to us. But you could join us and then you could fight the bad man.
LAURA: What is Teven doing right now? 
SAM: Yeah, what is Teven doing right now? 
MATT: As you're having this conversation, Teven is part way into the hall, the stairs that lead down and out. The door is partially open. He's holding the blade at his back and is like, looking at you all for the go. 
LAURA: Ask her-- Ask little angel if she's seen Ludinus in there.
MARISHA: Oh, little sweet pea-- [laughter] Have you seen this very bad man? Have you see Ludinus?
MATT: "Ha, ha." (giggling) "I have." 
MARISHA: Oh! 
MATT: "He brought many friends." 
MARISHA: Yes, no, I know. We met his friends. You did quite the number on them. 
MATT: "I was hungry."
MARISHA: Okay, um-- [laughter] 
ROBBIE: I'm getting bad vibes. 
MATT: "I've been here so long."
MARISHA: Okay, um, no. Yes, no, we know, like 1,000 years. Do you know how long that is?
MATT: "I-- don't, really."
MARISHA: When was the last time you saw this man and his big, bad, meany friends?
MATT: "I can't say, it's so dark. He was here. He's a strong one. He got away. But he's still near. I can feel him."
MARISHA: (nervously chuckles) Okay-- [laughter]
SAM: I'm sensing some fear among the group. 
MARISHA: Not me, I'm good.
SAM: Okay. Just to embolden us, I would like to say a quiet prayer for all of us. Oh Lord, please guide us in the battle ahead. Don't let the little girl terrorize the old man. [laughter] Let us find our quarry. That we may bring you glory. And I cast Bless on everybody. 
ASHLEY: Ooh!
TRAVIS: Hey! 
LAURA: Remind me what that does?
MARISHA: You get a d4! 
SAM: d4 on everything.
TALIESIN: You add a d4 to?
SAM: To attack rolls and-- 
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, Bless, I love Bless. Bless is a good time. 
MARISHA: All right, well. 
MATT: On everybody? 
SAM: Yeah. 
MATT: Hell yeah. 
MARISHA: Everybody? What level are you?
SAM: I'm level you, baby. [laughter] 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
MARISHA: We should've had him when we tried to do the porn.
LAURA: Yeah. [laughter] 
MARISHA: It would've been so much more convincing. (laughs) [laughter]
ROBBIE: Some things are better missed. (laughter)
LAURA: You should've been here too, Dorian. You'd have been great. 
TRAVIS: We could always make the next one noir.
MARISHA: Ha, ha, yeah. 
SAM: Sequel. 
MATT: The little girl turns around a bit and begins walking towards the engine before she fades. You hear it say, "It's so dark." 
LAURA: Oh! I just feel so bad for her.
LIAM: She's so convincing. 
TALIESIN: She's not real.
MARISHA: We could all hear that in our heads, yes? 
MATT: Yes. 
MARISHA: Okay. 
LIAM: All right, we all see the kid, we all hear it.
TRAVIS: What is it, Fearne? 
ASHLEY: I would like to cast Locate Creature on Ludinus. 
MATT: Okay. [cheering] 
ASHLEY: Oh, thanks for the clap. [laughter] No, no, that's not what I meant. [cheering] All right, all right, calm down.
MATT: As you finish the rapid casting of this small scale divination spell in his direction, recalling his face, recalling the interactions you've had. As soon as that tether of magic reaches out to the ether to grasp him, it is thrown back and scattered like ash. It's unable to find an anchor. 
MARISHA: That bitch. 
LAURA: That bitch. 
ASHLEY: Bitch!
LAURA: Oh wait, what level was that?
ASHLEY: Oh, I'm sorry. Oh! Oh. It was fourth. Do I need to roll?
MATT: Hm?
ASHLEY: Hm?
TALIESIN: A 4th-level spell. 
ASHLEY: It was a 4th-level. 
MATT: Oh, it is fourth level, yes it is. Go ahead and roll a d20 for me.
MARISHA: Come on, come on, come on!
TALIESIN: Big money, big money. 
ASHLEY: Okay, wait. What is it again? If I-- 
MATT: Just roll it. 
TALIESIN: Roll it.
TALIESIN: It doesn't matter. 
ASHLEY: Oh, which one do I want to do? Okay, I'm going to do this one. 
TALIESIN: Not that one. 
ASHLEY: 12? 
MATT: 12. The spell, though it was scattered before it could find its particular focus point, there is no odd side effects here in Eiselcross.
TALIESIN: What is here in Eiselcross? Okay, no, never mind. Don't want to know. 
LIAM: I also don't know much about magic, but he's probably still hiding nearby, right? This is a magic thing? 
ASHLEY: Got to be. 
LAURA: I think so.
LIAM: All right. 
TRAVIS: I'm going to take Teven's lead and I'm going to go in down the stairs. Fucking chisels out, baby! And start to give Teven a little cover. 
MATT: All right, as soon as you begin to approach and you make eye contact with Teven he nods and you see a grin pull across his mouth. The sharpened teeth exposed as he tightens the hold on his blade. The two of you begin to descend the stairs that curve downward into an open metal doorway that leads into the darkened chamber. The only light sources you have are those glowing glyphs and the electrical buzzes of the nearby equipment that's surrounding and are part of the central Nox Engine. The occasional arc sending a splash of light across the room and casting instantaneous shadows that vanish as soon as the light does. You begin to step on the inside and that smell, that strange metallic buzzing smell that you caught on that weird cloak that you acquired. A very similar smell here, but completely suffusing the space. It is almost an overwhelming scent to you with how sensitive your nose is. You begin to think now, as your blood hunter senses kick in, you recognize the smell on that cloak and what is strong here. That is deep, fiendish, bloody power. 
TRAVIS: Oh. Cool. Is there any heat coming off of Teven?
MATT: There is a mild heat coming off of him, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, you bet your ass. [laughter] Okay, I'm following your lead. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to follow them. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, going down too.
MATT: Okay, so Ashton and Fearne are following as well. 
LIAM: If Fearne goes, I start to trek alongside her. 
MATT: All right, Essek gulps. "I don't know why I agreed to come with you." He glides down the steps as well.
TRAVIS: Is this a high ceiling chamber, as well? 
MATT: It is quite a high ceiling. It's about 50 feet high.
TRAVIS: Essek, maybe you could do that hovering shit a little bit up, you know, a little higher and give us a little multi-tiered approach.
MATT: "Well, this isn't a Fly enchantment, this is just a hovering cantrip."
TRAVIS: I don't need an explanation, it's cool. [laughter] 
MATT: "Should I need to, I will find myself higher in the air, but for now I do not wish to waste spell slots."
TRAVIS: Oh, yeah.
ROBBIE: Did someone say fly? And I click my heels together like Dorothy and up I go.
TRAVIS: Yes, baby! [cheering]
MATT: "The blue boy is a show-off, isn't he?"
TALIESIN: Oh yes. 
MATT: "I respect that." [laughter]
SAM: Excuse me, pardon me. Excuse me, pardon me. I'm going to make my way all the way to the front next to Teven.
MATT: ♪ Makin' my way ♪
ASHLEY: Ow, ow. 
TRAVIS: Ow! 
SAM: Sorry, excuse me. This is a good place for me to be. 
MARISHA: Yes, it is.
MATT: So you've all stepped down into the chamber now.
ASHLEY: This is so smart. 
MATT: Isn't it? Stepping over the heavy chains and sometimes you kick a set of them and shift. As they do, they pull taut in other places. But there's that ominous presence, that vibration, that hum in the air from the central engine. As you've all stepped into the room, the metallic door behind you. Boom.
LAURA: Why?
MATT: Slams shut. You hear a (clicking). 
TRAVIS: Uh, that's my cue. (grunting and growling) [cheering] The werewolf comes out and then I straight up Mr. Peanut, with the monocle. 
MARISHA: Mirror Image. 
MATT: All right.
LIAM: We're in the center-ish of the chamber now, so there's a portion of the room that I couldn't see before from a porthole. So, if I do a 360 do I see an old-ass elf in here? 
MATT: So, looking around the room, you can see now on these three higher up platforms that are about 10 feet above the floor recess where you stand, they have these pyramid-like structures that all face inward towards the engine. Occasionally, when the energy arcs, it arcs from the engine to one of these three pieces. You can see the glyphs heavily giving off light from the ground and there is this heavy, magnetic pull towards this central, recessed pit of arcane magical cables and a magnetic device that fills the center. Above it, about 10 feet, is where that platform rotates with the present glowing purple crystal, rotating within. As you look up at it, you can see the little girl is now standing up on top of the engine behind it. Her arms behind her back looking down. At this proximity where you have a better look at her, you can see her pale face, extremely vibrant long, straight red hair. Just a black, it looks almost like a dress, but it also kind of looks like armor. She looks down with her hands behind, down at you all, expressionless. "Thank you for coming, it was so dark and so lonely." 
ASHLEY: You're welcome. [laughter] 
MARISHA: Now, you mentioned being hungry, but um-- It seems you had quite the bottomless buffet back there. So, are you good now? Are you good to where we can make this deal? I know it's hard to think on an empty stomach, so.
MATT: "I haven't eaten for centuries. I'm-- So-- (deeply) Hungry." [clamoring] As the room quakes, the vibrating voice itself, so bassy, that the stones and bits of shale on the ground shake along before it stops. "Heh, heh." [laughter]
ROBBIE: I flutter down next to Ashton. Land next to him and I say: I know you said you were afraid of losing, but don't forget, we're losers, baby. And I'll draw my sword. 
TALIESIN: Yep. 
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
LIAM: We can make a deal though, kid, right? I mean, you don't want a bunch of mid-level cheeseburgers
when you can have a Michelin star elf. [laughter] 
TALIESIN: After all, you eat now, you're stuck in here. So, no dessert. For a very long time.
MATT: "Please, free me." 
MARISHA: Can you tell us what your role was in this engine room? Obviously we know you were, you know, powering the device, but do you know to what extent what exactly you were powering?
MATT: Make a persuasion check for me. 
MARISHA: Okay. Okay, okay, okay. No problem. 
TRAVIS: No problem. Grand demon. Persuade the grand demon. 
MARISHA: Yeah. Okay, okay. Okay, 20 total. Dirty 20. [cheering]
MATT: One of her eyes flickers bright with power for a second. Causing this side of her face to glow red. "They bound me here. They kept me here. They pulled me apart and put me together. Again and again. They used my connection to the Abyss to bind my brethren in their service. They-- Are-- Dead now. Good."
LAURA: Most of them are dead now. But that elf that was here earlier, he's all that's left of them.
TALIESIN: And he has no intention of letting you out. He's got plans for this thing.
LAURA: You said he got away. Where did he go? 
MATT: "I'm not sure. He cloaks his magic strangely. I sense him, somewhere in these ruins, not far. But he'll come again. He wants something here. I sense his frustration. I can-- Taste it."
LAURA: What if he wants the anchor? What if he wants to bind Predathos the same way?
MATT: "Then you must destroy it. Free me. Let me go."
MARISHA: You-- you didn't really answer the question of like, what you were doing? Because I trust you, I believe you. Um-- maybe he does it with the anchor. But also, he could want this machine. So it would be great to know, you know, just so we have a little bit of context. It's always good having context.
[laughter] 
MATT: "I know not what the elf wants. Our conversation was short and curt. He looked past me and past this engine like I was a boundary. I know not if he looks for this, but I think he covets this crystal here. I think this, this is what he seeks." 
ASHLEY: Insight check. 
MARISHA: Yeah, 100%.
MATT: All right, you both can make an insight check or one of you can assist the other. 
MARISHA: I'll assist uh-- Fearne's got high insight, right? I got, hang on-- I assist Fearne. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
TRAVIS: While they're doing that, can I also make my way around the room towards the door on the opposite side of the chamber? 
MATT: Sure. It's interesting, as you walk around, she's still facing the group. But a shadowed, second double of the girl's head, almost ethereal, shifts and follows you along with it. Like a second ghostly head keeps track on you.
TRAVIS: Nope, nope, nope, nope. 
ASHLEY: 31. [cheering]
TRAVIS: Grand demon. 
MATT: It is hard to read a being of pure Abyssal chaos kept in darkness and shadow for 1,000 years, broken and half given to madness. Here it gives to you a truth that you can sense is false. 
LAURA: (gasps) [oohing]
MARISHA: It's false. 
MATT: There is a desperation to her voice and a focus on this crystal that is borderline obsession. With a 31, you get all that. [laughter] 
ASHLEY: I'll take it. [cheering]
MATT: I'd whisper, but it's across the table, stage. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
TRAVIS: At the door, any kind of writing, symbols, porthole windows?
MATT: No portholes or windows. Numerous protective glyphs and runes across it. It is very heavy and looks like it's barred and locked. 
LAURA: Ha, ha, ha.
TRAVIS: Oh. This door looks important! 
LAURA: Is that not the one we came through? That's a different door?
LIAM: Yeah, opposite. 
LAURA: Oh, okay. 
TALIESIN: Is the lock smashable? What's your feeling on it?
TRAVIS: Smashable? Probably, only if I can watch you try. I'll try the handle. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: You try the handle, and the ghostly head looking towards you, the eyes flare up. Suddenly, you feel a chain whip out from out of nowhere and swing towards you. (gasps) That's going to be an 18. Does that hit your armor class?
TRAVIS: That is my armor class. 
MATT: That is your armor class, okay. 
TRAVIS: I thought we were cool! What are you shuffling papers so much for? Uh-oh. 
MATT: Because you take-- 
TRAVIS: Less dice, less dice! 
MATT: That's going to be 16 points of piercing damage.
TRAVIS: Oh! 
MATT: Reduced to eight. I need you to make a strength saving throw for me. 
TRAVIS: Okay. I get advantage on that because I'm a werewolf. 21. 
MATT: Okay. You just fail.
LAURA: (gasps) 
ASHLEY: Oh, what?
TALIESIN: Ooh!
ROBBIE: Sheesh! 
LAURA: Oh no! 
MATT: This hooked barb at the end of the chain seems to spear into the back of your wolven shoulder and wrap around your arm, and you are pulled off your feet and up. You guys watch as out of this little girl, this almost spectral dark chain, not unlike the blackened, hooked chains you've seen emanating from the walls and ceilings of this ruin, strikes off, and in an instant, pulls wolven Chetney up next to her on top of the engine. 
LAURA: Uh-oh. 
MATT: You're half bound by it, but you're not restrained, and the voice goes, "You promised you'd destroy it. (deeply) Destroy it!"
MARISHA: Hold on, hold on, hold on!
TRAVIS: It's in me, it's in me! It's fucking in me! 
SAM: Maybe we should listen to the little girl. 
TRAVIS: (groans)
MARISHA: What's behind the door, sweetie? 
MATT: "I will tell you when you destroy the Pinion."
LAURA: Is that a promise?
MATT: "Sure." [laughter] 
TRAVIS: I'm already--
SAM: No, is the Pinion up high, or--?
MATT: Oh, the crystal? 
SAM: Yeah, the crystal. 
MATT: It's about probably 15 feet up in the air. It's floating right above this platform that itself is floating 10 feet up and slowly rotating, and there are these four spires that curve in towards it, so it's quite a bit. You'd have to view it from an angle to even see it, but it's casting a purple glow on everything around it, including the girl, and now Chetney from below. 
SAM: Okay, but you can't just reach it. You have to climb to it? 
MATT: Likely. 
SAM: All right, I'm going to start climbing. 
TALIESIN: Whoa! (laughs) 
ROBBIE: I'm going to fly right up next to him, but not help, just watch. 
SAM: I'm okay! I'm fine! 
ROBBIE: You're doing great.
SAM: I'm fine. Hooves don't really grip very well. 
MATT: So you have to leap up to catch the edge of it, because it is floating aloft there on its own. You (grunts) catch up, takes you a couple tries, and you catch the lid, but hold on, and it's rotating with you on it. You lift up onto it-- 
SAM: This looks cool! 
MATT: -- and you can feel that power around it. Occasionally, you can see these little specks of dust-like energy encircling this purple stone. This purple stone, it's about maybe seven inches high, and you can see there is a smaller, something set within it, and there are countless small runic glyph inscriptions across the surface of this stone. This feels extremely powerful. 
SAM: I could hit it. 
LAURA: I'm assuming, is it locked in place?
MATT: Teven speaks up and says, "Under no circumstances are you to set this thing free!" (whooshes) He pulls his blade out. 
LAURA: No, you got it, you got it. 
ROBBIE: But, I mean, you could hit it.
LAURA: Is it locked in place? 
MATT: It's floating freely.
LAURA: I'm going to say in Braius' head: Does it look like you could move it?
SAM: What the fuck was that? (laughter) [laughter]
LAURA: Hi. 
SAM: Oh, hi. Hi. Hi. You could just talk to me.
LAURA: No, no, no. I don't want it to hear us, that's why.
SAM: Oh, I see. Yeah. Maybe? I could try. Should I try? 
LAURA: I don't want you to die. We have a bad habit of-- 
SAM: That's very nice of you. 
LAURA: Yeah, it's--
SAM: You just met me. 
LAURA: Well, yeah. That's true. But I feel a connection to you, you know?
SAM: Really? Are you single? (laughter)
LAURA: Oh, I'm not sure! 
SAM: Oh! [exclaiming] (pitying noises) 
ASHLEY: No! 
TALIESIN: Wow. [exclaiming] 
SAM: So, you're saying there's a chance?
LAURA: No. No, that's not what I'm saying. 
MATT: The rest of you, as Braius is climbing up here, staring at this crystal, Chetney still standing there, this hooked chain wrapped around his arm, the little girl, her eyes wide, is leaning forward, and as she does, you see the spectral shape of a larger entity almost surround her like a ghostly shell. You see these massive, red, muscular, clawed arms that are holding onto the edge of the engine. You see these impossibly large shoulders with hooked armor protruding from its own fleshy plates. You see these burning red eyes and a tooth-filled, open, lizard-like mouth with massive horns that curl out, and a long tail that slithers back with its own horrible, demonic mouth that clasps the end of it. You see a glimpse of the true form of Dominox, itself beginning to apparate in anticipation. "Yes!" 
ASHLEY: W-w-wait! [laughter] I have a question. Why-- Why can't you destroy it yourself? 
MATT: "I cannot. The enchantment prevents me from doing so." 
ASHLEY: Oh, that totally makes sense. 
MATT: "So, destroy it!"
LAURA: Okay. 
MARISHA: Question. Question. I want to try something.
LAURA: I want to try something too. 
MARISHA: Do you want to go first? 
LAURA: No.
MARISHA: No?
SAM: You guys talk a lot. Should we just hit something? 
LAURA: I want to cast Telekinesis.
MARISHA: You want to cast Telekinesis? 
LAURA: I do.
MARISHA: Are you trying to do something with this door? 
LAURA: No. 
MARISHA: Okay, you go first. 
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to cast Telekinesis.
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: I'm going to look at the little girl, and I'm going to try to grab the crystal with Telekinesis.
MATT: Try and grab the crystal with Telekinesis? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your spell modifier.
LAURA: Okay. (hums) Can I activate my robes that I just got?
MATT: Sure.
LAURA: All right.
MARISHA: Ropey? (shivers)
LAURA: All right, I'm going to do that. Okay. Oh god, there are so many dice in front of me. Fuck. 
LIAM: Who did that?
LAURA: I don't know. [laughter] What am I doing? I'm adding my spell-- modifier. 
MATT: Modifier. Your spell modifier, so your charisma modifier.
LAURA: Okay. Okay, it's not an attack, it's not a DC. 
MATT: No.
LAURA: It's just--
MATT: There is a DC to this, but-- 
LAURA: Well, do I have an advantage?
TRAVIS: Just roll it!
LAURA: 10. Fuck! You want my dice? 
MATT: As you concentrate on it-- 
LAURA: Just kidding. 
MATT: -- the gem doesn't even move. You get the sense that the spires around it and the device of this engine is dual-purpose. It also keeps the soul anchor crystal bound here. It is not meant to be moved. It could be, with an extremely powerful magical source or will, but currently, it is unmoving. 
LAURA: All right. We break the things around it, we can get the crystal, potentially? 
MATT: If you destroy the spires, maybe.
LAURA: Okay. In Chetney's head-- 
TRAVIS: Huh? 
LAURA: -- I'm going to say: Okay, hear me out. I know you got a hook through your body right now, and there's a lot going on. [laughter] 
TRAVIS: I'm just fucking hanging here.
LAURA: But-- I think we should try to get this crystal free! 
TRAVIS: Oh, cool. How?
LAURA: By breaking all these spires. 
MATT: You feel the chain begin to suddenly snake its way deeper into your wound. You take another 13 points of piercing damage, reduced, because of your wolven form, and the girl goes, "I have waited too long." 
LAURA: We're trying! 
MATT: "You dilly-dally for no reason! Destroy it now!" 
LAURA: We're trying to get the crystal!
MATT: "Destroy it, or I'll kill your friend!" 
TRAVIS: I'll make you a deal, I'll make you a deal! I'll make you a deal! If you take this fucking hook  out of my body, I'll take care of the crystal! 
MATT: Make a persuasion or deception check.
TRAVIS: Persuasion, or decep-- Yep. Oh, 23. [cheering]
AUDIENCE: Bless! 
TRAVIS: Oh, oh, oh, oh!
SAM: I was wrong about Bless. I can only do it to three people. But he was one of them, because he was scared.
MATT: The other two are? 
TRAVIS: 26! 
SAM: The other two are Fearne and blue boy.
MATT: All righty. 26. The chain recoils. "Then go."
TRAVIS: Okay, okay. I try and stem the bleeding. That's not going to stop! Do I drop down to the platform, and is the crystal within--
MATT: You can leap onto it, but it is spinning. I'll say make an acrobatics check to try and not get knocked off of it as it spins in the air. 
TRAVIS: 12. Not great. 
MATT: You leap, and it knocks you off, and you fall another 10 feet, tumbling to the ground for two points of bludgeoning damage.
TRAVIS: I'm trying to help! Could you give me a lift?
MATT: The little girl transforms into the entirety of her true form. Dominox stands tall, at 15 to 16 feet in height, the horns curling outward, the massive, clawed arms now scraping across the ground as it stands, the tail thrashing against the machine, the cracked exterior of it and the rust and dust
getting kicked off at the impact. She steps forward and picks up your wolven form and pulls you close to her face. You can feel the warm, putrid scent of the demon's breath across your face. "Now, destroy it!" She holds you right up to it. You watch as she puts her hand towards the crystal. It sparks, and she has to release you, and you barely catch the edge of the platform. 
LIAM: May I have stealthed over to the other door during the last 15 seconds? 
MATT: What's that?
LIAM: Could I have snuck over to the door while Dominox was focused so intently on Chetney?
MATT: Sure.
LIAM: And open it? 
MATT: The large double doors?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: It is deeply sealed. Make-- I don't know-- Are you trying to do this quietly? 
LIAM: Yeah, I was. 
MATT: Massive double doors, yeah.
LIAM: Because I only chanced it because the demon was grabbing Pop-Pop. 
MATT: Yeah, so if you could make a sleight of hand check for me to try and check this. Now mind you, I'll give you advantage on this, because the demon is distracted.
LIAM: I'll reroll the one. 18.
MATT: The demon, which had recoiled, the tail that is whipping around has its own head at the back of it, and the tail channels on you as the doors (clattering) slightly. "(roars)" 
TALIESIN: Oh fuck. 
MATT: Dominox turns. "You lie!" 
LIAM: I'll Gust the door. 
MATT: You Gust the door? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: The door holds firm. 
LIAM: Okay, okay! I'm so small! 
MARISHA: Wait, this is what I wanted to try! I see Orym, and I'm with you. This is going to be weird. I want to cast Animate Object on the door.
ASHLEY: Oh, yes! Yes! [cheering] Hoo hoo hoo hoo! 
SAM: It's Doory! 
MARISHA: Doory! (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Brother! 
MARISHA: Objects come to life at my command, and I can give them commands.
MATT: This would be considered-- It's on the cusp of huge, so I'd say it's considered a huge object. 
MARISHA: Yep, so that's all I got. All right. That's it.
MATT: All right, so, (laughs). As Dominox has now turned and the tail is whipping angrily, the door in the middle of it, part of the heavy reinforced beams split, and a singular eye looks around and looks down. 
MARISHA: (cackles) Hello! 
MATT: What level is that spell?
MARISHA: 5th-level, so I've got to roll. 
MATT: Roll a d20 for me. 
TALIESIN: Roll! 
LAURA: Oh, I didn't roll for my Telekinesis, did I?
MATT: No, you did not. Roll for me, please. 
MARISHA: 11. 
MATT: Okay, you're fine. But please roll for me. 
LAURA: (groans)
TALIESIN: Laura!
TRAVIS: This is what you get for having so many dice! 
LAURA: One. Fuck! 
MATT: Which is good, because a 17 plus is when the effects get weird. In this instance, the higher you roll-- 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. (relieved groan) 
MATT: -- the chance you have of happening. So, however, in this instance, as the door seems to come to consciousness, with you standing below it taking in what the hell is happening around you, Orym, (yelps) Chetney is now grasping the side. Dominox is furious, roars out angrily. "(roars)" All the chains in the room shake and move rapidly, and we're going to roll initiative when we come back from break. (exclaiming) [cheering] So-- 
TALIESIN: Ready for it.
MATT: -- we're going to take our intermission here. Go ahead and get your drinks, use your bathroom, come back here shortly, and we'll jump back in here in this fray. So see you in a minute. [cheering]

Break[]
(mysterious music)
(peaceful music)
(music builds)
(tavern music)
KIRBY: And now, a message from your Critical Role lore keeper: Dani Carr.
DANI: We here at Critical Role know that life happens. Sometimes your friend becomes a rampaging werewolf
that you gotta calm down. Sometimes your other friend needs help dealing with a dead lady in her head.
We get it. And when life happens, we are not always able to watch four to five hours of Critical Role a week. That's why our lore department has been working tirelessly to find a way to make it both easier and faster to consume Critical Role's main campaign without losing that rich and vibrant tapestry of story and lore the Critter community has come to love. And after countless hours of hard work, we are happy to announce that we have found that way. Introducing Critical Role Abridged. Each episode of this lore keeper approved series has been carefully crafted by an incredibly devoted team to include everything you need to know to follow the Bells Hells stories all in about one hour. We've even added new pieces of artwork, bringing characters, items, and moments to life thanks to the help of our amazing community of artists from around the world. The time is now to begin your Critical Role catch up with abridged episodes of the Bells Hells campaign. New episodes air every Tuesday at 10:00 AM Pacific on YouTube. Beacon members receive two new episodes dropping every week on Tuesdays and Fridays. (energetic music)
(gentle music) 
LAURA: Hey Critters! Laura Bailey here to guide you through what's new in the Critical Role shop. Go ahead, darling. Treat yourself. This is pretty badass. I mean the Traveler always says impulse purchases  are a good decision. Roll an investigation if you want, it's basically perfect. Look at this. Isn't it fashion? So much fashion happening here. (gasp) Could anything be more perfect? Style should never be a dump stat, darling. This is a lot of stuff you guys. We have, like, so many cool things right now. And hey if you want, you could head over to the Critical Role shop right now. 
(tavern music)
TALIESIN: Delve into a new tabletop roleplaying game of investigative horror with the "Candela Obscura Core Rulebook" using the Illuminated Worlds System by Darrington Press. Roam the turn-of-the-century- inspired setting of the Fairelands, including the bustling city of Newfaire and the ancient ruins of Oldfaire below. Assemble a circle of investigators within the paranormal secret society of Candela  Obscura. You'll analyze strange and horrifying events, fight back against dangerous phenomena, and contain the bleed that spreads from corruptive magick. Choose from 10 custom character sheets to empower your investigations and explorations. Use tactical intuition and brawn with the Soldier specialty, use your charm with finesse and flair as the Magician specialty, or study and practice mystical arts as an Occultist. Explore districts of Newfaire, competing organizations, four full assignments, and dozens of example assignments to inspire you. If you choose to brave the role of Game Master, this guide contains everything needed to pave the way for your Candela Obscura investigators. Offered in both a standard edition as well as an ornate limited edition for collectors, the "Candela Obscura Core Rulebook" contains 204 art-filled pages, including maps, items, immersive notes, mysteries, and plenty more to power your very own story. Keep this tome close for the knowledge obtained may be the key to protecting you, your allies, and the Fairelands. 
(ominous music)
NARRATOR 3: The limpet ship lifts off and peels away, keeping low to the desert terrain, gliding away on a long, extra-wide, slow, stealthy sweep towards Stationary Hill, still shimmering in the distance. The rising backdrop of stark black fold sweeps nearer and nearer to the cabin. 
NARRATOR 2: Lark, Jonas Spahr, and Phineas Thatch watch the ship go until it disappears into the fiery desert landscape, and then they ascend the transfigured red stone promontory, climbing up to Lark's cabin.
(epic music)
(mischievous music) (typewriter clacking)
(peaceful music)
(door opening) [studio audience laughter] [light applause] FATHER: Honey, kids, I'm home!
MOTHER: Welcome home, dear. [studio audience laughter] MOTHER: And you know what night it is?
CHILD 1 and CHILD 2: It's Thursday night! MOTHER and FATHER: (laugh) ♪ (upbeat TV theme) ♪
NARRATOR: This summer, get the membership the entire family can enjoy!
Your one-stop shop for the world of Critical Role. FATHER: (laughs) NARRATOR: Including a 10% discount in all our shops,
live event pre-sales, a private Discord. FATHER: The popcorn monster!
NARRATOR: And instant access to all podcasts and VODs for all your favorite shows. CHILD 1: Hurry up, Mom!
CHILD 2: Critical Role is about to start! ♪ (upbeat TV theme ends) ♪ (remote control click) (ominous flashing) NARRATOR: With Beacon,
all your dreams can become a reality. Beacon will introduce you to what has been
and what could be. CHILD 1: Is Sam turning into a sunflower?
MOTHER: No, Son, Sam has always been a sunflower. (static crackling) CHILD 2: Is Sam my father?
FATHER: No, I'm your father. NARRATOR: Beacon will bring you to the edges of the
(distorted) cosmic threshold. (distorted speech and gnashing)
(distorted speech and gnashing) (increasing beeping and powering up)
(chirping notification) MOTHER: Oh, the new episode of Candela just dropped. FATHER: Oh, spooky.
[studio audience laughter] ♪ (upbeat TV theme) ♪ NARRATOR: Beacon. Endless stories, endless possibilities.

Part II[]
MATT: Welcome back. 
TRAVIS: Wait, wait, wait! [cheering]
MATT: Now, first off, across the interior of this chamber, the slowly rotating gem there-- 
TRAVIS: Dope. [cheering] 
ASHLEY: Whoa!
MATT: Could-- [cheering] 
MARISHA: That's a sick shot. Yes, cams. Yes.
TALIESIN: No. Oh, I don't like that.
MATT: As that there-- 
LAURA: Oh no! 
TALIESIN: (cackles)
MATT: -- is Dominox, in full form. 
LIAM: It's just a little girl! 
LAURA: Oh no. 
ROBBIE: Wow! 
TALIESIN: Can we go back to the creepy little girl?
TRAVIS: It's Tygra from Thundercats. 
MATT: In which you are, Chetney, held by Dominox still. 
LAURA: That's how big he is. Oh no. 
MATT: Yeah. [laughter] Essek and, we have Teven over there. Please, describe where in this chamber you see yourselves, I currently have over in the back by the doors, you, Orym, as that was where you were last. [exclaiming] 
LIAM: With Laudna, I think? Goddamn it. 
ROBBIE: Oh ho ho ho ho!
MATT: Yeah?
ASHLEY: Big boy!
MATT: Laudna, you're back here as well?
MARISHA: Yes. 
ROBBIE: I always knew I'd die by a furry. [laughter]
ALL: Oh, whoa!
LAURA: It's so cool. 
ROBBIE: Wow!
MATT: So, Imogen, whereabouts do you see yourself? 
LAURA: Well, let's see, I was trying to do the telekinesis thing, yeah. Right around there seems about right. 
MATT: You got it. All right. 
TRAVIS: Where is the door on the opposite side of the room?
MATT: You came in through this chamber here. This is the double doors, the massive double doors, which one of them has been made alive.
TRAVIS: Yeah. [laughter] 
MATT: Fearne, where would you like to be?
ASHLEY: Okay, I think, is Teven over there? Or no, no, other side? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm going to go by him. (laughs)
MATT: All right, you've got it. Dorian and Ashton. 
TALIESIN: Where do you want to be? Let's-- 
ROBBIE: I was up hovering by where Braius had climbed around the spire surrounding the--
TALIESIN: Okay, so I would've been about 10 feet back from there, because we had just had that talk. I was still-- 
ASHLEY: It's such a cool map.
MATT: So whereabouts? 
LIAM: Is there a minotaur mini? 
TALIESIN: I think right to the right of Imogen, maybe?
MATT: Sure. 
TALIESIN: What do you think?
LAURA: I think that's great. 
MATT: Dorian, you said you were flying.
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MATT: Let's put you whereabouts? 
ROBBIE: Chet told me to. Near the rotating spires.
MATT: Okay, so you'd be right about there on the opposite end of Dominox. 
TALIESIN: Or I think I would be on the other side of Imogen, just because-- 
MATT: So you'd be--?
TALIESIN: Yeah, towards the giant clusterfuck of demon, no no no, like, yeah, but next to Imogen still.
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: I would be a physical barrier. 
MATT: You got it. Well then, I need you all to roll initiative, please. [cheering] 
TALIESIN: Yep. 
MARISHA: This combat is brought to you by WizKids minis! [cheering] The Bells Hells box set available now. Enhance your home game experience with Crit Role minis by WizKids, available at WizKids.io/crminis at your friendly local game store! Let's fucking go. [cheering] 
TALIESIN: I hate it. 
MATT: All righty. So, 25 to 20. [exclaiming] 
ASHLEY: LOL. 
LIAM: 20. 20 at the door. 
MATT: Orym is at 20 at the door. Okay. Let's see here. 20 to 15. (gasps) [gasping]
TALIESIN: I rolled so poorly. 
ASHLEY: Oh, that's right, we do have Bless. 
LAURA: Oh, we do? 
TALIESIN: Oh, we do!
LAURA: Wait, do we add that to Bless?
MATT: Bless, it's an ability check, so you add the d4, yes. 
TALIESIN: Okay, hold on, that changes things.
SAM: But only, you're talking about Bless? It's just Fearne, Chetney--
TALIESIN: Oh, never mind, boo. And Dorian. 
ASHLEY: Wait, and you can use it multiple times? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, any time.
LIAM: Yeah, it's ongoing. 
MATT: So, 20 to 15.
ASHLEY: Uh, uh. 
LAURA: Oh good, Chet? 
MARISHA: 13. 
SAM: Oh, 13. 
MATT: All right, 13 over there.
LAURA: Rollies? 
MARISHA: Rollies. 
ASHLEY: I got 12.
ROBBIE: I got 14, I'm sorry. 
MATT: All right, so we got Dorian. 
SAM: 14. 
MARISHA: Three. All right, 15 to 10.
ASHLEY: 12 for me. 
MATT: 12 for Fearne. 
TRAVIS: You got 13, right? 
MARISHA: Me and Braius have 14, so it's--
MATT: Oh, so wait, you and Braius have 14? 
SAM: No, we both had 13, I beat her in Rollies.
MATT: Got you. All right, so we have-- Fearne, you were at 13? 
ASHLEY: I was a 12.
MATT: Oh, you're 12, sorry. 
TRAVIS: I'm also a 12, but ladies first. 
SAM: This is the entire second half. 
ASHLEY: Wait, no, no, Rollies.
MATT: So-- Laudna, you beat him in Rollies? 
MARISHA: No, he beat me in Rollies.
MATT: All right. Got you. 
TRAVIS: 12. 
ASHLEY: 19. Yeah. Okay, okay.
MATT: Braius... 
SAM: I missed this. 
MATT: Laudna. [cheering] All right, and-- [cheering] And then, Chetney?
TRAVIS: Orym, Dorian, Braius, Laudna, Fearne, Chet. 
TALIESIN: Nine.
LAURA: So yeah, you-- 
AUDIENCE: Nein! 
MATT: Ashton? 
TALIESIN: Nine.
AUDIENCE: Nein!
LAURA: Nein. 
MATT: And-- 
LAURA: Seven.
MATT: All right. 
LAURA: I rolled a one. 
MATT: Imogen. All righty. 
LAURA: Oh no, so that's four. I didn't get the Bless, it's four. 
MATT: There you go. All right. So Teven actually is going to go first. 
LAURA: Go, Teven!
MATT: Teven, angrily, blade out, now itself burning with infernal rage, says, "I knew it from that moment we stepped in here. It had to die!" And is going to charge forward, flying. 
TALIESIN: Don't rub it in our faces. 
MATT: Off to this side, cleaving down with its blade, it's going to attack twice.
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
MATT: Ooh, the first attack's going to miss. Second attack does hit, though. It's going to Divine Smite. [cheering] That's going to be 6d8 damage on top of its-- 
ROBBIE: Whoa! 
TALIESIN: What?
MATT: -- original strike.
LAURA: How do you want to do this? 
MATT: So-- (laughter) All righty. So Teven slashes down angrily-- 28 points of damage on that one. 
LAURA: After the 68? 
MATT: On that strike angrily. Strikes down, that's going to finish his go there. Now, top, the next person's going to be Orym on initiative count 20. Orym, what you got? 
LIAM: Except that I'm at a shut door with an eyeball that I can't get open, right? 
MATT: At the moment, yeah. 
LIAM: At the moment, then I'm going to hold. Laudna's with me?
MARISHA: Doory's very friendly. 
MATT: Laudna's a little bit out of the way, yeah.
LIAM: (sighs) I am going to hold my action, and attack anything I deem a threat once Laudna gets her new friend to open up for us. And that's it, that's all I can do. 
MATT: Okay, you got it. All right, that brings us to the initiative count 20. The first lair action. 
LAURA: Aw. 
ASHLEY: What? 
MATT: It's going to use here is Writhing Chains. I need everyone to roll a dexterity saving throw for me. 
SAM: Okay.
ASHLEY: Ugh. 
TRAVIS: (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I get advantage on that.
LAURA: Do we get an advantage, Dorian, from the previous thing that you did? 
MATT: Not a dexterity one, no.
ASHLEY: Is this like a magical effect? [laughter] 
TALIESIN: Jesus, why am I rolling like this?
MATT: It is not a spell effect. 
TRAVIS: 19. 
MATT: 19, fail. All right. [exclaiming] So you, however, you're in its grasp, so chains spin around the ground and strike up and wrap around you, and you're held firm in Dominox's grasp,
so no major effect to you. What you got, Laudna? 
MARISHA: 12, fail. 
MATT: 12. The chains along the ground seize up around your legs and drag you 20 feet in the direction of Dominox. 
MARISHA: Ulp! 
MATT: Being pulled towards it. Dorian. 
ROBBIE: Just like my best buddy Chetney, 19. 
MATT: 19, you also get dragged now to the ground 20 feet-- 
SAM: Except! Except he's within 10 feet of me. [cheering] So he is blessed with my Aura of Protection, granting him a plus four on his save. 
MATT: So that's total of?
ROBBIE: 23. 
MATT: 23? Untouched by it. [cheering] 
ASHLEY: Nice! (chuckles) 
MARISHA: Let's fucking go. 
MATT: The chains streak out to try and grab you and you flutter out of the way. The wave of power that emanates from Braius somehow deflecting them and giving you the confidence to avoid them. Braius, what'd you get? 
SAM: 22. 
MATT: 22, you as well. Both of you in tandem dodge out of the way, leaping backward as you flutter back, and the chains reach out and grab nothing. Ashton.
TALIESIN: 12. 
MATT: 12. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, it was great. 
MATT: You get dragged up into melee with Dominox. Orym. 
LIAM: 23. 
MATT: 23, you manage to sidestep without issue. That's going to bring us to Imogen. 
LAURA: 13. 
MATT: Imogen, you get dragged up into melee with Dominox over there. 
ASHLEY: Eight! [laughter] 
MATT: You get pulled 20 feet closer there, it's dragging everyone there, and then Essek--
Oh, hell yeah, he rolled a 22. [cheering] He manages to float out of the way. The chains wrap around the ground, and he's like, "Nope, nope, nope, nope, nope!" And glides up a bit. "I will not be having this." [laughter] Finishing that go, it is Dominox's turn. 
TALIESIN: Cool. 
LAURA: Oh god. 
TRAVIS: 'Scuse. 
LAURA: 'Scuse! 
ASHLEY: 'Scuse!
LIAM: Grab your butts. 
MATT: All right. Dominox is going to go ahead and-- Yeah, it's going to take a multiattack with its claws. Yeah, it's going to go for Ashton first, since it pulled you in. First claw attack is going to be 26 to hit. 
TALIESIN: Ooh, yeah, it just hits. 
MATT: You take 35 points of slashing damage.[exclaiming] 
TALIESIN: Ow. 
MATT: Then its other attack's going to be against Imogen. 
LAURA: Aw, come on. 
MATT: That's going to be a 31 to hit. [exclaiming] 
LAURA: Nope. 
MATT: That's 35 points of slashing damage.
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
TALIESIN: Oh, oh, oh. Can I, before I take that hit, can I use Erratic Defense? 
MATT: Sure. 
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: Erratic Defense, not Erotic Defense. Though I guess that is--
TALIESIN: I don't have that anymore, but I do have Erotic Defense. Given the nature of this current game.
MATT: Yeah, no joke. 
TALIESIN: All right, I'm-- 
LAURA: How close are we now to Braius? Just out of curiosity.
MATT: How close what? 
LAURA: How close are we to Braius? 
MATT: You to Braius? 
LAURA: Yeah, am I far away? I can't tell. 
MATT: You are about 30 feet from him.
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay. 
TALIESIN: (cackling) Okay, I have resistance to that, so what was that, 32?
MATT: It was 35. 
TALIESIN: 35, so that would be now, I'm going to heal myself, what is half of 35?
AUDIENCE: 17! 
TALIESIN: 17? Eyy! Yay, math audience.
LAURA: Human calculator.
TALIESIN: So I should be at 114 now, okay. Then, I rolled space, so a giant portal opens up
underneath our friend here, and it is teleported to an empty space of my choice within 30 feet of me. 
MATT: Where do you want to put him?
TALIESIN: Ooh. 
LAURA: Dominox? 
TALIESIN: Dominox. [cheering] Yeah.
MATT: Chetney. Dominox vanishes from that space, and you plummet to the ground.
TRAVIS: Ah! 
MATT: Taking two points of bludgeoning damage. Reduced to one.
LAURA: Would that have happened before he hit me? 
TALIESIN: Yeah, it would've happened before, because he hit me first. So you didn't get hit. 
MATT: Well, because you thought of it afterward, we're going to say that he hit you first and came back to it. It's only fair. 
TALIESIN: That's fair. I think it'll be funny, I want to see what happens when we just drop him on the crystal. [cheering] 
MATT: Okay. Dominox appears 30 feet in the air, falls towards it, and right before slamming into it, gets knocked off. The power of the soul anchor that does not allow Dominox to touch it, ends up thrusting him off the side and towards Fearne. Fearne, make a dexterity saving throw for me, please. [exclaiming] (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
ROBBIE: Yes.
LIAM: Mirthful Leap, Mirthful Leap! 
ASHLEY: Ooh, I can still use Bless? I mean, not that that's going to help at all. Six, seven, eight, 10. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god.
TRAVIS: Oh shit. 
TALIESIN: Shit. [laughter] 
MATT: You take five points of bludgeoning damage as you are currently restrained, being crushed underneath Dominox's form, fallen to the ground. 
TRAVIS: A grand demon just fell on your ass. [laughter] (laughter) 
TALIESIN: 150. 
MATT: All righty. Since it is still Dominox's turn, Dominox is going to use movement to stand up. Take the space, you're no longer pinned. It is, however, going to use, at the end of its attack there, it says two claw attacks, and then uses Mind Feast.
TALIESIN: Ew. 
MATT: So. 
LAURA: Oh, we're so fucked.
MATT: Ashton. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MATT: Since you were previously affected by its visions earlier, I need you to make a wisdom saving throw again. 
TALIESIN: Cool. That's with advantage, right? No. Okay. No. Let's have the first good roll of the night. Nah. Later. 10. [laughter] 
MATT: You take-- 14 points of psychic damage.
TALIESIN: Ow. 
MATT: You instinctively run 30 feet this direction, away from the rest of your friends. 
TALIESIN: Cool. 
MATT: That's going to finish Dominox's turn, that brings us to Dorian, with Braius on deck.
LAURA: No, Orym skipped because he's holding his action. 
ROBBIE: Okay, is it me?
TALIESIN: Yep, next is Dorian. 
ROBBIE: Agh! [laughter] Bard with stage fright, bard with stage fright, got it, got it, got it.
Floating up there-- I'm going to fuck with that crystal. 
TRAVIS: Do it.
ROBBIE: He said "Do it," I'm going to do it. I am going to-- 
LAURA: Not the crystal!
ROBBIE: What? Why?
LAURA: The spires next to the crystal! 
ROBBIE: That's exactly what I meant. I'm going to cast-- [laughter] Oh, but I can't mess with the spires without messing with the crystal. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. (pigeon coo) (pigeon coo) 
ROBBIE: I'm going to cast Shatter right at the center spire. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MATT: You are. Okay, roll damage. 
ROBBIE: Okay, let's go. (grunts) Now let's see what is it, so fast, do it faster. Oh, wow. Okay. It would be one, good, seven, good, 10, good. 12, last one, 18. 
MATT: 18 points of damage. (explosion) It bursts out from inside and you watch as the four spires break and go flying, splintered in different directions. The platform itself seems to crumble and crack to the ground. The soul anchor gets jettisoned through the air into that far corner. 
ASHLEY: Oh.
LAURA: (gasps) 
MATT: Whoomf.
TALIESIN: Oh no. 
LAURA: Nice. 
ROBBIE: Yeah! 
ASHLEY: Good job. 
SAM: We won? (laughter)
LAURA: We did it. 
MATT: Over by Essek, who's like, "Oh goodness!" [laughter]
TALIESIN: This is the football game in "Flash Gordon" now, it's going to be-- All right. 
MATT: Do you want to move or stay put? 
ROBBIE: I'm going to move to over toward Essek and the spire, but as I do, I'm going to flutter by Braius and go: Thank you. I'm going to give him a Bardic Inspiration for my bonus action, yeah. 
SAM: Ooh! 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. As our flowing locks intertwine. (laughter)
MATT: Okay, so did you want to move somewhere specifically or do you want to just stay near Braius? 
ROBBIE: No, I want to go over closer toward the crystal toward by Essek. 
MATT: Over here? 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: Yeah, you can fly over 30 feet? 
ROBBIE: Yep. 
MATT: That'll get you about there.
ROBBIE: Thank you.
MATT: As you're gliding from the air. Great, that finishes Dorian's go. At the end of your turn, Dominox is going to use two legendary actions. [Gasping] 
TALIESIN: Fuck. 
TRAVIS: Two?
MATT: After getting up, looks over in the direction of Teven, who had carved that giant gash into its chest and goes, "No, back to where you came from." He's going to attempt to Banish Teven. 
MARISHA: Uh, Counterspell! [cheering]
ASHLEY: Oh, oh, oh! [cheering] 
MATT: Range on Counterspell is 60 feet?
MARISHA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Come on! 
ROBBIE: He's got the ruler out. [laughter] (nervous noises)
MATT: That's within 60 feet, though--
ASHLEY: Yes! [cheering] 
MARISHA: What level is Banishment? 
MATT: Though, where you got pulled, I don't know if you have line of sight on him because you're behind the engine over here. I'll tell you what, it's on the cusp. Go ahead and roll a perception check for me. 
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay, okay. Come on.
MATT: If it's an 11 plus-- 
MARISHA: Okay. 
MATT: -- you see him out of the corner to Counterspell. 
TRAVIS: You're going to fuck this up. 
ROBBIE: Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep.
MARISHA: I got this, I got this!
ROBBIE: Go, go, go, go, go! 
TRAVIS: You're not going to do this shit! You're going to get a straight fucking-- 
MARISHA: Just enough that's, um, shit, 14.
ROBBIE: Yay! [cheering] 
MARISHA: Is that right? 
MATT: That'll do it.
MARISHA: 13. 13. It doesn't matter, it makes it! 
MATT: (laugh) So as Dominox attempts to unravel the magic that has allowed Teven to be here. Teven, you can see wings in front to try and guard from whatever this is. You curve around the corner and snuff the magic from the air and the Banishment spell is scattered into nothing. [cheering] 
ASHLEY: Yes!
MATT: Braius, you're up, with Laudna on deck. 
SAM: The Herald of the Platinum-- Ah, fuck it. The Herald of Asmodeus. 
TRAVIS: Oh! 
TALIESIN: Knew it! Knew it! Knew it! I fucking knew it! Fucking knew it! [cheering and clapping] 
LAURA: Oh shit!
TALIESIN: Had it goddamn pegged.
SAM: Seeing Teven's attack, causing what, 68 damage? I'll try to beat that. (laughs) I will bonus action use Blinding Smite.
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Then jump and attack with my Poison Pen. That's my flail. 
MATT: You leap over the central recessed platform of arcane power that was holding it aloft. Land with your massive dual spike balled flail mace and strike down, roll your attack against Dominox. 
SAM: Okay, that's a 22. 
MATT: 22 hits, yeah. [cheering] 
SAM: So that'll be 5d8. Hold on, where's my-- shit. 
MATT: I will tell you in advance, Dominox is immune to poison damage, so don't roll the additional poison damage on this one. 
SAM: Damn you.
MATT: And you know that being fighting most demons. You'd be aware of that.
SAM: Chyeah.
MATT: Yeah. Yeah, yeah. 
SAM: Well, I only rolled 4d8, anyway, so it's okay. So that's 14 plus seven is 22.
MATT: 22 points of damage, nice, for the first strike. 
SAM: Then second strike. Uh, ooh, god, that's terrible, only an 18. 
MATT: 18's going to miss, unfortunately. 
SAM: Damn! Oh wait, I have inspiration! 
MATT: You do. 
SAM: That's a 24. 
MATT: That hits. [cheering] That hits.
SAM: Does Blinding Smite work again?
MATT: Huh? Blinding Smite might last until it's expended, I believe. 
SAM: So I get another 3d8 on top?
MATT: So Blinding Smite on the first one. Correct, yeah, so you deal an 3d8 damage to the target, additionally, the target must succeed or be blinded. Hold on a second. Yeah, the next time you hit a creature, so yeah.
SAM: Oh, so just the first strike. 
MATT: It has to make a constitution saving throw to see if it was blinded. Which-- Oh, it rolled a 32.
SAM: Jesus. [laughter] 
MATT: Sorry. 
SAM: So for this second strike, I'll put in a whole bunch of Divine Smite. So another 4d8.
MATT: Let's go. 
SAM: Oh, terrible. Okay, 16-- 23 points. 
MATT: Nice. [cheering] Two heavy hits across, Dominox tries to grab for the second strike, but you bow low and out of the corner of your eye, can see up in the air floating your new blue bardic friend. That inspiration lets you take the second strike that slams into the side knee of the terrifying demon Dominox. "(groans)" It takes the impact.
SAM: As my flail strikes it leaves streaks of black across the monster.
MATT: (splattering) Hell yeah. So you are literally painting this demon with black ichor. 
SAM: Yes, I am. 
MATT: I love it. "Paint it Black," baby. All righty, Laudna, you're up, with Fearne on deck. 
MARISHA: Okay. So, he, Dominox pulled me. He, she, they, yes, all of the above?
MATT: Dominox seems to carry a masculine energy in this form, but carried a feminine energy as a little girl.
MARISHA: All right, girlboss energy, love it. Am I locked down by those chains or it was just a yank?
MATT: No, they just yanked you in that direction. 
MARISHA: Okay, fantastic. (hums) Little door, little door, let me in. I command the door to open that I cast Animate Objects on. 
MATT: All right. (shifting) (clicking) The door cracks open-- Oh god, as I knock everything over in the process. This is the true D&D experience. Oh great, my things. The door does slam open at that point and now you can see it, you have an open pathway there into what looks to be a long brass hallway. 
TRAVIS: A brass hallway? 
MATT: Yeah. 
LAURA: An escape route.
MARISHA: I look at Orym: Are we doing this? 
LIAM: This? Well, you're not going alone.
MARISHA: Dominox didn't want us in here.
LIAM: Fuck it, let's go. 
MARISHA: All right, let's go. [cheering] I use the rest of my movement to move in.
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: (nervous noise) 
TALIESIN: Oh boy.
MATT: You move in past Orym and you can see this faintest bit of light from down the brass hallway, and you see the shape of a figure that's now blocking it. There is somebody in this hallway. 
MARISHA: Oh shit, oh shit. Oh shit, is it, is it--
TRAVIS: Solo round! 
MARISHA: Oh no! [laughter] Does the silhouette resemble Ludinus'?
MATT: Roll a perception check for me. 
ASHLEY: Oh no, oh no! [dramatic music]
MARISHA: 17. 
MATT: 17. You see a lithe figure in long blue robes. [exclaiming] Platinum long hair, and a withered black hand that has gold caps along the fingers, who looks like they're rushing in your direction. As soon as you come through they stop and go, "What have you done, what are you doing? We have to stop it now."
MARISHA: (stammers) [laughter] I uh, Dominox, the big, big demon, I'm assuming you mean that?
MATT: "I can hear your battle from here, yes. Do not let it free. (groans) I'll take care of it." He just kind of gave you info and is now just focusing past to continue and move on. 
MARISHA: Can I get like a moment, can I get a moment?
MATT: Yeah. 
MARISHA: I turn around. Can I see Imogen, can I get in anyone's head?
MATT: From where you are in this hallway, you can not see Imogen.
TRAVIS: Just Orym. 
MARISHA: I then just scream: Let him out! [cheering] That's it.
MATT: You shout that? 
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: (evil laugh)
MARISHA: Ooh, I don't know. I don't know about any of this.
TRAVIS: There's no fucking playbook for this. 
MATT: The minute you shout, "Let him out!" Teven goes, "You will do no such thing." Looks to you, Fearne. "They will do no such thing."
ASHLEY: Huh? [laughter] 
MARISHA: Oh, this is layered. [laughter] Okay, I did it, I think that's it. 
MATT: All right, finishing Laudna's go--
MARISHA: Wait, wait, wait, I, shit, tits! Bonus action, Form of Dread. [cheering] 
MATT: As the darkened collar climbs up your neck and the black energy begins to swirl around your shoulders, you can roll for your temporary hit points and that'll bring us to Fearne's  turn, with Chetney on deck.
ASHLEY: Hi, okay. So am I still chained up or underneath?
MATT: No, it just dragged you near him. Now that Dominox has shifted over to that side, you're still on the ground, but you're no longer restrained.
ASHLEY: Okay, I am going to Wild Shape into a little mint green wombat. (laughter)
MATT: I don't have a wombat-- 
ASHLEY: Because wombats I'm pretty sure have marsupial pouches.
MATT: -- but I have a little spectral healing beast here I'll use for that. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
MATT: All righty, you shift into this little wombat.
ASHLEY: And of course, it's a round boy. 
MATT: Of course, of course.
ASHLEY: I'm pretty sure I can make it with my 35 feet of movement to the crystal and I'm going to put it in my marsupial pouch. [laughter] 
MATT: Okay. So you're moving out of Dominox's melee range. So as you rush over towards it, Dominox's going to take a swing at you. Not even the claw, the massive tail with the head at the end of it's going to swing by to try and bite at you. 
ASHLEY: Oh wait!
LAURA: (gasps) He rolled really low.
MATT: That was a natural one. (cheering) 
ASHLEY: Oh yes!
MATT: No, that's good, that's good. That's interesting, this is interesting. Okay, so you rush over and you grab the crystal.
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
MATT: And what?
ASHLEY: My little wombat hands and I take the crystal and I just look around and I shove it in my marsupial pouch. 
MATT: Okay, it is in your pouch.
ASHLEY: Not to brag. 
MATT: That's going to be your action. (laughter) How many hit points does your marsupial have?
ASHLEY: That is such a good question. Let me look up what might be similar to a wombat. What would be similar to a wombat? 
MATT: Like a badger... 
LIAM: I mean, a cat is a d4. 
MATT: I know. (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Let see if I, by chance, have--
MATT: Well, you can look it up and keep that in mind, because I think that's your turn. Chetney, you're up.
TRAVIS: Oh fuck. Okay, I'm going to pick myself up and run towards Dominox, making a line towards him and just as soon as I use most of my 40 feet I'm going to turn so I'm running in diagonal towards where the crystal was and I'm going to use my bonus action to cast Misty Step
and (whooshes) appear in the corner of the room right where the crystal was now.
MATT: Right, you've approached there and the crystal is gone and in its place you see a tiny little rotund wombat. [laughter] 
TRAVIS: What the fuck is this? [laughter] (hisses) Give me the crystal!
ASHLEY: Wait, would he see that it's glowing in my tumtum? (laughs)
MATT: You would, actually, you glance down and you see this, in the flesh pouch, there's this dull purple light glow that's pulsing. (laughter) 
TRAVIS: Give it to me!
ASHLEY: All right, I'll reach into my pouch and I'll give it to Chet.
TRAVIS: Can I take the crystal with my action? Can I stick it in the bag of holding?
MATT: Yes, you can. [cheering] Okay. 
TRAVIS: Look who's got the hook in now, bitch. [Laughter] That's my turn. 
MATT: All right.
ASHLEY: I give him a high five.
MATT: The minute you put it in the bag of holding Dominox who had just been battling goes, looks over at your direction. "I'll eat everything that's ever mattered to you! We had a deal!" That's going to finish your turn. [laughter] Essek is going to stand there, see this happening and go, "I certainly hope you know what you're doing." (laughs) "(groans)" Like thinking and he's going to strafe off, floating off this direction off to the side of this chamber, above the nearby ceiling glyph and is going to pull his arms around. "I don't want to waste the powerful stuff yet." And is going to pull the energy in where it begins coalesce and crackle
with purple black energy and releases a 6th-level Lightning Bolt right across the chamber through Dominox. Dominox, natural five, fails. It-- No, it's going to save that legendary resistance. So it takes full damage on that. Which is going to be-- Ooh. Ooh, not bad. 38 points of lightning damage, halved because it has resistance to lightning. So still 19 points of lightning damage. As it strikes through and gets absorbed Essek's like, "Ugh, right, demon. Ugh. The anxiety gets to you." That's going to finish his go. That brings us to Ashton, with Imogen on deck. 
TALIESIN: Okay, well, let's rage and find out what it is I'm going to be doing, because I don't know. [cheering] Am I afraid or did I just run in a direction? 
MATT: You just ran the other direction, you're now like 10 feet away from him.
TALIESIN: Okay, I start to shift into that black and white silver tone. I start to get a little heavy and drop into the ground. God, and I am going to-- Seeing what's happening right here,
I am going to start booking towards the exit, I think, since we seem to be playing-- 
MATT: Towards the exit this way? 
TALIESIN: Towards the door, our happy friend door.
MATT: Okay. So that's 40 feet. 25, 30, 35, 40 feet.
TALIESIN: Am I anywhere near the machinery or no?
MATT: Over here, yeah, there's quite a bit of machinery over here. By the way, you do leave Dominox's attack range.
TALIESIN: Oh, was I in this attack range?
MATT: You thought you were 15 feet away, yeah. If you want to try and arc around you can. 
TALIESIN: Oh, I'll try and arc around, yeah, shit, I'm not a crazy person. 
MATT: So that'll reduce your movement to there instead to be over here. You'll get about there. 
TALIESIN: Are we trying to break this thing on the way out or no?
LAURA: (uncertain noise)
TALIESIN: Fair, I'm going to spend the rest of my action, I'm going to do a charge attack, I'm going to run and shoulder check the, actually-- 
MATT: Machine, the engine? 
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: Sure.
TALIESIN: Fuck it.
MATT: (thudding) You charge upward, hammer the side, heavy attack. Go ahead and roll.
TALIESIN: ♪ Mm-hmm ♪ It's a charge attack. Ugh, god, thank god, because I'm rolling bad. 19.
MATT: 19 definitely hits that machine. 
TALIESIN: You say that. It's been that night. All right, that's-- (sighs) Oh my god, I can actually reroll that. Thank god, for Pete's-- Six, seven, eight, nine. That's 21 points of damage. [cheering] 
MATT: 21 points of damage. Mm-hmm. Okay, so yeah, so that's a heavy crack. You hit the side of the device. As you slam it, these cracks (cracks) shoot around the side. You can see it shifts a little bit to one side. More energy (whooshes) begins to shoot around it. Dominox shifts over looking curiously at the damage you're dealing to it. 
TALIESIN: Does Dominox seem to have an opinion? [laughter] (laughter)
MATT: Roll an insight check. 
TRAVIS: (scoffs) "Does he have an opinion?" [laughter]
LIAM: "I'm big on crypto."
TALIESIN: You never know. [laughter] 14. 
MATT: Yeah, he would.
TALIESIN: Is he snarling?
MATT: Snarling and is currently more focused on the direction of the soul anchor that has now vanished from sight at the moment, un-shattered, un-destroyed, and just like, (grunts) just takes notice. 
TALIESIN: All right-- 
MATT: That's all, that's all you pick up. 
TALIESIN: That's fair. 
MATT: That's your first attack? 
TALIESIN: Oh, oh yeah, that's right, I get two.
MATT: You get two, buddy.
TALIESIN: Well, yeah, I was going to say, no, because I took the dash attack, is that just one attack? Because--
MATT: Yeah, that was as far as the charging attack.
TALIESIN: Charging attack, okay, so I think I just get-- Oh, I do get two, then? Okay, I haven't charged in ages, I don't remember how it works. Hey, 23. Thank god, that's a roll. Okay. I can reroll that. (sighs) God. 12, 13, 16 points of damage. 
MATT: 16 points of damage.
TALIESIN: Oh my god, that's embarrassing.
MATT: All right, (smacks) another heavy slam. You can see that entire side of the machine now cracks, parts of metal begin to bend inward and fall off. On the inside, you can see these masses of copper wiring that are (whirs) giving off energy. The hum has gotten louder. You can feel, even just the proximity of that much arcane energy swirling through, the side of your head is almost reacting within the proximity of it and glowing a similar greenish energy. Does that finish your turn? 
TALIESIN: Yep, that finishes my turn. 
MATT: Imogen, you're up.
LAURA: Okay, can I see Chet from where I am?
MATT: Yeah, at the end of his turn, actually, the last legendary action for Dominox, who's furious at this point, is going to use a chain spear against you, Ashton. 
TALIESIN: Yeah.
ASHLEY: The chain bringer.
MATT: That's real bad. That's a 14 to hit.
LAURA: Oh!
TALIESIN: No.
MATT: Yeah. Chain spear (whooshes) goes wide, and you see it coming and just. [laughter] (cackles) 
TALIESIN: Ah! [laughter] (laughs) Oh. Oof. [laughter] 
MATT: All righty. Right. So, Imogen, you're up, sorry. 
LAURA: Okay, can I see Chet?
MATT: You see Chet across the way, through Dominox's legs on the opposite corner, yeah. 
LAURA: Does he look like he'd be about 60 feet from me? I can't tell.
MATT: Looks like he's what?
LAURA: I can't see the map, is he about 60 feet from me?
MATT: It's pretty close. You could try and take a guess. It could be, it's on the cusp. 
LAURA: I'll step forward 10 feet if it'll get me closer.
MATT: All right, this will put you in melee with Dominox, just so you know.
LAURA: Okay, (giggles) okay. 
MATT: But you're pretty confident he's now definitely within 60 feet. 
LAURA: Okay. If I saw him-- 
MATT: Yes. 
LAURA: -- then I saw what happened. (laughs) I'm going to use Telekinesis on Chet. [laughter] 
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: I'm going to pick him up and chuck him towards the door that opened. [laughter] [laughter and cheering]
TRAVIS: There's something so full circle about this. [laughter] 
MATT: All right, so you're going to resist?
TRAVIS: No!
MATT: All right. So you pick up Chetney and telekinetically fastball special him at an arc across the chamber. (whooshes)
TRAVIS: Fuuuck! [laughter]
MATT: (whooshes) Just barreling through the door. (gasps) Laudna, as you're standing there
taking on your Form of Dread, and you see Ludinus is now gliding in the air, just almost full-on Super Saiyan floating and heading in that direction, as Chetney kind of, "Ah!" [laughter]
TRAVIS: Look out! [laughter] 
MATT: You hear Ludinus go, "My goodness." [laughter] Make an attack roll. 
TRAVIS: Me? 
MATT: Yeah. [laughter] 
LAURA: (gasps) Oh my god, amazing. 
TRAVIS: First blood, bitch.
MARISHA: Come on, come on.
TRAVIS: Ah, it sucks. (laughs) Plus-- It's an 11. 
LAURA: Oh. (groans)
AUDIENCE: Plus, plus. 
MATT: Plus d4. 
TRAVIS: Plus, eh... (grunts) 11 plus four, 15. 
MATT: Still misses. [laughter] But good looking out. So as you come arcing toward and you go (whooshes) past the machine in towards the opening, and you've just a split-second before you just see the face of Ludinus Da'leth looking at you. With frustration and a rapid sigh, he just puts a hand up, and a shield (whooshes) reflects you off, and you bounce and ping-pong down the hall, like a bowling bumper lane-- 
MARISHA: Chetney! 
MATT: -- before sliding (whooshes) down past Ludinus, who's now almost up to where Laudna is, and you're about 30 feet down that way. As you do, the rest of you notice Dominox (whooshes) gets yanked along. 
ALL: Oh!  
ROBBIE: Oh, you're tethered. 
TALIESIN: This is going to be amazing. [laughter] 
MATT: Braius, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, as Dominox is being pulled into you.
TRAVIS: (laughs) Oh shit. 
MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay, okay. 
SAM: 12. [laughter] 
MATT: 12. You get knocked prone-- 
SAM: Ah! 
MATT: (thuds) and off to the side there. All righty.
SAM: Ow.
MATT: That's your throw. [laughter] 
TRAVIS: Oh Jesus.
MATT: You are no longer in melee with Dominox. [laughter] 
LAURA: I'm not? 
MATT: Actually, no, you still kind of are, unfortunately, sorry. 
LAURA: Okay. Oh no. (groans) I'm going to bonus action, Misty Step. [cheering] 
MATT: Where? 
LAURA: Oh god, he's going-- 
MATT: Here's the thing, you just cast Telekinesis, or you still had it up, right? 
LAURA: I still had it up. 
MATT: Yeah, yeah, so you're fine, you can do this. Yeah. 
LAURA: That lasts 10 minutes, beebee. I'm going to Misty Step back. 
MATT: Back this way? 
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: All right. (whirs) Okay. You got it. 
LAURA: Unless like-- Yeah, that's what I'm going to do. 
TALIESIN: Oh, because he can't-- 
TRAVIS: What, unless what? 
LAURA: No, he can't-- 
TRAVIS: Oh. 
LAURA: I don't know, maybe he can only be within a certain amount of space of the gem, so that means he wouldn't be able to get back to the corner-- 
TALIESIN: That's how he can't leave the room. 
LAURA: Potentially.
TRAVIS: Great, great. 
TALIESIN: Oh, ooh, fun. 
MATT: All righty, did that finish your go? 
LAURA: Uh-huh.
MATT: All right. 
TRAVIS: Teven. 
MATT: Teven's going to go. Teven's going to charge in. "(laughs) You're in a bad place now, beast." He's going to fly up and arc wings (flutters). Blade comes down (whooshes) towards it.
That's going to be-- That's cocked. Blah, blah. Ah, that hits. And second strike. Ooh, even better. So Teven swings down two massive strikes of his blade upon Dominox. Get chains out of the way. I'll put them there, that's fine, we know where that is. He's going to full-on Smite this motherfucker again. [cheering] For another-- That's not a great damage roll. Aw. 
LAURA: Come on, Teven. You can do it. 
MATT: That's 22 points of damage on that one. But the second strike hits. That's better, that's much better. Oh my god, okay. [cheering] (laughs) That's 36 points of damage on the second strike. [cheering] So that's almost 60 points of damage in one round. You're seeing Dominox,
who already while at first looked strong in the moment, but was withered with much hunger and trying to recover strength once lost, has now taken some heavy hits and is showing wear and tear. Especially after being completely slammed on by a handful of individuals. But that's going to finish Teven's turn. That brings us to the top of 20. Orym, you're up, and it's the lair action. 
LIAM: Fuck, fuck, fuck. What the Hells is the plan? [laughter] Ludinus is probably made of snow, I can't think straight! Ah! I down a potion of speed that I've been carrying forever. [cheering] I do a 180 and fucking tear ass back towards the demon. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: 60 feet. 
MATT: Oh yeah, you get there easy. (laughs) Like the tiniest little green-colored Sonic the Hedgehog blur just (whooshes) over. [laughter] 
LIAM: What is the fucking plan? [laughter] That is a 22 to hit. [cheering] 
MATT: 22 hits. 
LIAM: Okay. (grunts) Zuba-zuba-zuba-zuba-zuba-zuba-zuba-zuba-zub-zub. Let's make it a goading attack, like that's going to work.
MATT: Sure. 
LIAM: Five and six is 11. 
LAURA: On Dominox? 
LIAM: Total of 20. 
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: 20 just hits. 
LAURA: (gasps) Oh. No, no. 
MATT: Oh, 20 damage.
LIAM: I already hit. It's a 20 for damage-- 
MATT: Sorry, you're right.
LIAM: -- and it has to beat an 18, which it's going to. 
MATT: Got you, all right, so it's 20 damage on him. That's going to be 17. 
LIAM: Fail. 
MATT: Fails. [cheering] So all attacks that aren't you have disadvantage. 
LIAM: Yeah, I leapt up and stabbed him right in the crotch. 
MATT: Go for it. 
LIAM: Here, let's keep going. [laughter] 
LAURA: Nice. 
LIAM: 26 to hit. 
MATT: 26 hits. [cheering]
LIAM: We're just going to go quick here. So that is nine points of damage. Next one is a 17. Probably misses? 
MATT: 17 does miss, yeah. 
LIAM: Okay, hasted action. Here we go again. Let's go. Going for it. Ah, 18, misses, right?
MATT: Yeah, unfortunately.
LIAM: Aw, 19 misses. 
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: Shit. 13 misses. 
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: Aw. Action Surge. [cheering] 
TRAVIS: Let's go, let's go. 
MARISHA: Come on. 
LIAM: 28. Let's make it a tripping attack because that's dumb.
MATT: Sure. [laughter]
LIAM: That is 19 points of damage, and it has to beat an 18 strength.
MATT: 26.
LIAM: Okay, it does beat it.
MATT: It's a little beefy.
LIAM: Natural one, I'll reroll that. 
MARISHA: Come on.
LIAM: Natural one! 
ALL: No! 
TRAVIS: (laughs)
MATT: Orym, describe to me how this murderous frenzy comes to an abrupt and sudden end. [laughter]
LIAM: Oh my gosh, that ends, I don't get my final ninth attack?
MATT: No, you'll get the attack, but I want to end it on the one because it's funny.
LIAM: Oh my god. I'm moving too fast. I'm highly caffeinated and I'm like a hummingbird. I'm just buzzing around his fucking ankle, slashing and slashing and slashing. I skim past, I don't hit anything, and I slam into a wall and I take six points of bludgeoning damage. [laughter] 
MATT: I love it. You can still roll your ninth attack as part of that flurry, though. 
LIAM: I shake it off, and I don't remember what it was. And now it is a 27. 
MATT: That does hit. [cheering] 
LIAM: Let's make it a tripping attack. 
MATT: All righty. 
TRAVIS: Please fall on Fearne. [laughter] 
LIAM: 21 points of damage. It has to beat 18 with strength.
MATT: 27, it rolled just a little higher than last time.
LIAM: Okay! 
MATT: But good round. You can now see-- [cheering] (clapping) Hell yeah. All these strikes and cuts you watch as this dark demon blood spills out, and as it hits the ground, the blood turns into a pile of chains. Now it looks like the streaks of blood almost have links within them,
like it's bleeding the chains out of its body.
ASHLEY: Ew.
LIAM: I moved so fast that I broke my D&D Beyond page. Orym is wandering around aimlessly like he just spun around a baseball bat 50 times really fast. (laughs) 
MATT: Got a lag spike and is just running in the corner now.
LIAM: That's the end of my turn.
MATT: (laughs) All right, that finishes Orym's go. We're now at the top. With that, the lair action's going to be Imprisoned Rage. So all of Dominox's attacks have disadvantage, but they deal an additional 15 points of damage each. [groaning] Dominox, furious, is going to unload on you, Orym. 
TALIESIN: Fuck.
LAURA: Oh no. 
MATT: So that's going to be two claw attacks on you. They have disadvantage, though, yeah.
LIAM: Disadvantage on everyone but me, so he's fine with me. 
MATT: Correct, but he has disadvantage because of the lair action. 
LIAM: Oh. 
MATT: So that's going to be, disadvantage, 22.
LIAM: Hits. 
MATT: Okay. The second strike with the disadvantage. Oh, thank god, that would've been a natural 20, but he had disadvantage. It's still going to be 24 to hit, so both hit you. 
LIAM: Hits.
TRAVIS: Holy shit.
MATT: So he hits here. Sorry. All right, so these are claw-- Oof, these are nasty. All righty. That makes it-- Plus eight. (whispers) Plus 15. 46 points of slashing damage on the first hit. [exclaiming] 
TRAVIS: Uh. 
TALIESIN: Oh. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: What are you doing, you crazy motherfucker? 
MARISHA: He can see, though, right? I think he can see. 
TRAVIS: I think he's on the other side of the engine. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god.
MATT: 52 points of slashing damage on the second. 
ASHLEY: Oh my gosh.
LAURA: Not yet, not yet, not yet, not yet. 
MATT: Then he's going to use Mind Feast. [gasping] Mind Feast is going to be, once again, on you, Ashton, since you're the one that seems to have a best influence that it affected earlier. So make a wisdom saving throw for me. 
TRAVIS: Fuck.
TALIESIN: Yeah. Hey, first good roll for quite a while. That's 18. 
MATT: 18, unfortunately still fails.
TALIESIN: What the living--? Okay. 
MATT: It's a great demon, bro. 
TALIESIN: That's not so great.
LAURA: Grand demon. 
MATT: You get moved up towards it, and-- 
TALIESIN: How? How do I get moved up towards it?
MATT: -- you take-- 
TALIESIN: Wait, wait, wait, how do I get moved up towards it?
MATT: What's that? 
TALIESIN: How does he move me? Do I just walk up, or--? 
MATT: You just walk around. Your brain all of a sudden fills with an immediate strike. You take 14 points of psychic damage--
TALIESIN: Yeah, yes, I do.
MATT: -- and walk what you think is the direction you're meaning to. Your feet just move on their own and you find yourself moving towards him. As you step up next to him, (whooshes) there's a pulse of energy and he heals a little bit.
LAURA: Oh no. 
MATT: All righty. That's going to finish Dominox's go. But he gets back all his legendary actions.
LAURA: Ugh. 
MATT: It's now Ludinus' turn. 
SAM: Oh. (groans) 
LIAM: Let's go, snowman. [laughter]
ROBBIE: What's he going to do? 
MATT: Ludinus is going to fly past you, Laudna. Do you take an attack of opportunity?
TALIESIN: Hmm. 
LIAM: Let's have them both attacking us. [laughter] 
LAURA: Kaiju fight. Kaiju fight. [laughter]
MARISHA: Yeah, no. I'm going to say no, I don't have anything that's going to do anything and I don't want to reveal my hand that I'm against Ludinus right now. 
MATT: Okay, Ludinus-- 
MARISHA: So no, I'm going to let him go. 
MATT: -- flies into the chamber and gets a point of perspective, of height up here. (whooshes) The rest of you now around and hear this sudden shifting movement and feel a presence, as you glance over your shoulder and see Ludinus Da'fucking-leth glide up into the chamber, staff in one hand, the withered gold-cusped arm in the other. You see him put his staff forward, aiming it towards the center of the chamber. Energy begins to swirl as a mass amount of arcane power begins to channel up the staff, the runes. (whooshes) (whirs) As he sends the staff up and seems to paint a symbol in the air, it glows and leaves behind, right behind Dominox you see the same symbol (whooshes) spread and write, and then tear open, as a massive portal. He casts a Gate.
LAURA: (gasps) [gasping] 
ASHLEY: Cool. 
MATT: Behind Dominox, this large, 15-foot-wide portal opens. Beyond it, you see a chaotic realm of breaking rocks and screaming distant. That is a flash glance at the Abyss. [gasping]  Ludinus, up there, opens this gate and goes, "Push him in and slay him. He'll die for real if he dies at home." That's going to finish Ludinus' turn. 
LIAM: Insight check. [laughter]
MATT: Sure. 
LIAM: (sob laughs) My D&D Beyond's not working. I don't need it. Forget that, I got it right here. 
MATT: Yep. 
LIAM: Insight, it's so high. I'm so insightful. It's 16.
MATT: 16. Mm. Not bad. I mean, doesn't seem to be lying at the moment. 
LIAM: Ah, fuck off. [laughter] 
MATT: Dorian, you're up, with Braius on deck. 
SAM: What, what?
MATT: Dorian, you're up, with Braius on deck.
ROBBIE: What?! 
MATT: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: (laughter) Sure! 
MATT: Yeah.
ROBBIE: Uhh...(laughter) [laughter] 
SAM: You're on your own, buddy.
ROBBIE: Okay. 
TRAVIS: Come on, blue boy. Let's go. 
ROBBIE: Dorian's flying in the air and he's thinking to himself: What do I do? This is so beyond my depth! (pants) Believe your own narrative! Believe your own backstory! You're a bard! You're a bard! You're a bard! [cheering] [cheering] -- and he's going to pull out his mandolin-- [cheering] -- and at 6th-level, he is going to cast Otto's Irresistible Dance. [cheering] 16 to save! Dance, bitch! [laughter] 
MARISHA: Come on, fail. 
LAURA: Oh my god!
MATT: On Dominox? 
ROBBIE: Yes! [laughter]
MATT: That's going to be a 16. 
AUDIENCE: Oh! 
MARISHA: Wait, exactly? Exactly? 
MATT: What's your spell DC?
SAM: Wait, wait, wait. 
ASHLEY: Wait.
SAM: Wait, wait, wait. 
LAURA: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait?
SAM: Wait, wait, wait. Can I change the save? I believe, once a day, I can change someone's save to a charisma save. [gasping] 
MATT: Can you do that? 
SAM: Yes. 
MATT: I'll allow it. 
SAM: So he's got to roll a 16 charisma save. 
MATT: Okay, charisma would lower it. That makes it a 14.
LAURA: (gasps) [cheering] 
ASHLEY: Oh! Oh! (laughs) [cheering] Yes! [cheering]
LIAM: I believe in Asmodeus! (laughter)
SAM: He's really great, you guys. [laughter] 
MATT: In the focus of concentration on the missing stone that it's bound to, the appearance of Ludinus, and the chaos all around it, I'm going to say, because we're at a live show, it's fun, it forgets to use a Legendary Resistance. [cheering] (laughs) -- and is currently the massive, terrifying, nearly 20-foot tall, long-sealed demon, great demon used as an implement of arcane power by the ancient mageocracy of Aeor-- (laughs) -- recently unleashed to tear through and destroy the Ruby Vanguard and Ludinus' plot here in Aeor begins to cut a rug. [cheering] "(growls)" (laughter) "(growls)" (laughter) Full on going for it there.
TRAVIS: Riverdance! [cheering]
LIAM: Paint that, Frazetta! [cheering]
TRAVIS: Oh my god! 
MATT: Dorian, would you like to move, or are you good where you are? 
ROBBIE: I think I'm pretty locked in! (laughter) 
MATT: All righty. Great. So finishing your go, Braius, you're up, with Laudna on deck. 
MARISHA: Oh! Fuck! 
SAM: Oh boy! What are we doing?
MARISHA: What are we doing? 
SAM: Are we killing--
MARISHA: I don't know. 
SAM: The thing? 
MARISHA: Do we just pit Ludinus and him against-- 
SAM: Okay, by the way, that thing was called Sorrowful Fate, Matt, that feat. I think it's yours.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah! I know what this is.
SAM: Like, you invented it. I don't know. Whatever. 
ROBBIE: This song is only one minute long!
SAM: Oh, sorry. (laughter) The beast is dancing, right?
MATT: Yeah. 
SAM: So I'm going to leave him alone.
LAURA: Yes. 
SAM: And turn my ire towards Ludinus Da'leth. [cheering] How far away is he from me? 
MATT: Well, you have to get up from the ground because you were knocked over. So that's half your movement. He is about, I don't know, hard to ballpark, 60-ish feet from you, more or less. 
SAM: Okay. Shit balls! How far does Misty Step go? Only 30, right? 
MATT: For what? 
SAM: Misty Step.
MATT: Misty Step is a 30-foot, yeah. 
SAM: Shit! I can't because I just took half my movement to get up, right?
MATT: You did, yeah.
SAM: Goddamn it! 
MATT: So you have 15 more feet. 
SAM: (whines) I only hit things! [laughter] I will cast Moonbeam at Ludinus Da'leth. [cheering] 
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: I don't know what that is. [laughter] This is my first time playing with this guy. 
TRAVIS: New character, who dis? (laughs) 
MATT: By the way, got to remember that.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah. 
MATT: Could you please roll a d20 for me?
LAURA: Oh. 
SAM: Me? 
MATT: No. 
MARISHA: Wild Magic. Oh. 
ROBBIE: Five? 
MATT: Five. You're fine. Just making sure for the Aeorian fun-ness. 
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MATT: All righty. So you can get up, that's half movement, but you have 15 feet left, of movement. What do you want to do? 
SAM: I don't think I have enough movement to get on him.
MATT: But you're casting Moonbeam. So yeah, that definitely is 120-foot range. That can definitely get to him. Okay. So he's going to make a constitution saving throw. He has advantage on saving throws against spells. Oh yeah. That's going to be a 20. 
SAM: Oh. But that's not good. (laughs) In that case, I will use my--
MATT: It did half damage. So you still roll 2d10 radiant damage. 
SAM: Oh great! Okay. (squeals) 
TRAVIS: Oh boy! 
SAM: 10. 
MATT: 10? All right.
SAM: 10.
MATT: So he takes five damage.
SAM: Then I will turn to Teven and say: Will you tell the King of Lies of my bravery today? 
MATT: He says, "Help me dispatch this terrifying piece of shit and I'll put in a good word,"
and he's pointing at Dominox, who is currently dancing. Which, for the record, I don't know if the dance-- Yeah, so the dance isn't affected by being hit. You can still hit a creature while it's dancing. 
SAM: Oh, okay! 
MATT: It just makes it harder for him to do things. This is a high level spell. This is a 6th-level spell. It just fucks up his turn a little bit. 
LIAM: It is making a grand demon--
MATT: Oh yeah.
LIAM: -- do Riverdance. 
MATT: Oh, completely! Like, Michael Flatley somewhere is getting a nosebleed and he doesn't know why. [laughter] 
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: I'm going to use a bonus action then to do Hammering Horns?
MATT: Okay. 
SAM: Which pushes him 10 feet away.
MATT: Is that a spell?
SAM: I can't tell because my iPad just got fucked!
MATT: Oh no! (laughs) Live show, everybody. 
SAM: I don't think so. I think it's a minotaur-y thing.
MATT: Okay. Oh yeah! Got you! Got you! Yeah. Okay, and what does it do? Push him back 15 feet?
SAM: It just pushes him 10 feet. 
MATT: Pushes Dominox?
SAM: Yeah. (laughs) 
MATT: Away from you? 
SAM: Yes. 
MATT: Okay, are you going to do it from where? 
SAM: Where's the gate? 
MATT: The gate is back here, you're right here. If you want to try and move in front-- 
SAM: I'm going to move in front and then bash him with my horns.
MATT: Five, 10, 15 feet gets you right here. So you (collision) slam this forward. Is it that they have to make a save or they just get pushed? 
SAM: It is a strength 18 save.
MATT: Strength 18! Natural two. [cheering] 
SAM: Because I have a shield that you gave me that's a battering shield, anytime that I push someone 10 feet, it pushes them another 10 feet. 
TRAVIS: Oh! [cheering] Oh! [cheering] (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Oh yeah, baby! You broke the set! [cheering]
MARISHA: What just happened? [cheering]
MATT: So you watch as this gate, which is roughly the size of Dominox, Dominox gets slammed back by Braius-- 
MARISHA: Yeah, he's gone. 
MATT: Keep going. Yeah. (laughs) 
MARISHA: Ooh, he's so strong! 
MATT: Gets slammed back by Braius. 
LAURA: What is he doing?
MATT: -- tries to grab on the edge of the gate and then (whooshes) gets pushed out and is now standing in the Abyss, like they have crossed the threshold. [laughter] 
LIAM: Somewhere, Nott the Brave is sweating heavily. (laughs)
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: So he's right on the cusp of the portal? 
MATT: He's been pushed through the portal and is now currently in the Abyss.
TRAVIS: Oh, okay.
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay, okay. Where did Ludinus go in the initiative order? Can I ask? 
MATT: What's that? 
LAURA: Where was Ludinus? 
TRAVIS: He's right after Dominox. 
TALIESIN: Right after. 
LAURA: He's after Dominox?
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Okay. Shit!
MATT: All right, so that finishes Braius' turn. Laudna, you're up, with Fearne on deck.
MARISHA: (wails) Fuck! What are we doing? Fuck! Okay, kill him? Kill who? Kill what? 
SAM: I don't know! 
MARISHA: Shit! [laughter] 
SAM: This is my first day! 
TRAVIS: So conflicted!
MARISHA: I'm so conflicted! Okay, okay, okay, okay. [laughter] Question. Does this seem like the real Ludinus, or does this look like Snowdinus? 
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: Does it look like the Simulacrum? 
LAURA: I remember them saying that Ludinus was coming here in person. I remember them saying that. 
MARISHA: In person! It feels like make a perception check? 
TALIESIN: My parents lied about Santa Claus a lot. [laughter] So. You can't trust everything. 
MARISHA: Ew! Icky! 10. 
MATT: 10? No idea. Could be, could not be. (groans)
TALIESIN: It's one of Ludinus' helpers. It's always what they say, once you realize it's not the same guy.
MATT: What are you doing, Laudna?
MARISHA: Fuck! Okay. Oh shit! Goddamn, there's so much going on! (groans) I can see Ludinus, right? 
SAM: Are you single? 
MATT: Well, he came out of the chamber. You just have the door. So you have to step into the room to see him. 
MARISHA: Okay, I peek around the corner. 
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: I'm going to do something I've never done before. 
MATT: All right. [cheering]
MARISHA: This is a long game-- yeah. This is a long game plan, but I'm going to take the chance while I got it because who knows if I'll be able to do it any other round? 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: I am going to, while Ludinus is distracted, right behind him, Laudna puts her spindly fingers around the door and she just exhales and she goes (exhales) and a spirit, another spirit that was hung on-- No, let's see. Who's Ludinus-- It doesn't matter. Actually, it was Vess DeRogna. It's the spirit of Vess DeRogna. Goes (whooshes) and goes behind him. I'm going to cast Spirit of Death. 
MATT: Okay! 
MARISHA: Directly-- 
MATT: It's a bonus action, right? I'm going to go ahead and-- 
MARISHA: No, it's an action.
MATT: Oh, it's an action to do that? Yeah. Okay. 
MARISHA: This is not Void Puppet. This is Spirit of Death.
MATT: Oh, got you! Got you! Okay. It's a spell?
MARISHA: This is a spell. 
MATT: Ludinus is concentrating on this and goes, "(tsks) Counterspell." (groans) [groaning] 
MARISHA: Counterspell. [cheering] 
MATT: Oh! Okay. He cast it at 5th-level. So you have to roll to see if it stops it. 
TALIESIN: Does he have to roll too for chaos? 
MATT: Hmm? 
TALIESIN: Does he also have to roll for chaos if he casts-- 
MATT: What level's your spell? 
MARISHA: My spell is 4th-level. 
MATT: Yeah, no. So he doesn't have to. He cast it at 5th-level.
TALIESIN: No, I mean, but he has to roll that d20 also for Wild Magic. 
LAURA: Oh yeah! Did he roll for Wild Magic for his gate? 
MATT: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Okay.
MARISHA: I cast Counterspell at 5th-level. 
MATT: Okay. Yeah. No issue from me yet.
TALIESIN: All right, all right.
MARISHA: Counterspell at 5th-level. 
MATT: You Counterspell at 5th-level as well? 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: Okay. So it goes through. What does it do? 
MARISHA: Spirit of Death does? 
MATT: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Okay. There goes the 5th-level spell. Okay. So Spirit of Death, I command it to sink into the background, so hopefully he doesn't even really notice it and I am going to command it to haunt Ludinus. 
LAURA: (laughs) 
MATT: Okay. 
MARISHA: So "The spirit senses the direction and distance to the target as long as it's on the same plane of existence." Fuck! I'm so nervous! "Additionally, if the target starts a turn within 10 feet, the target must make a wisdom saving throw against any spell DCs or get the Frightened condition." But just for forever, he's haunted now, and I know where he is.[cheering] 
MATT: Okay. [cheering] So he tries to Counterspell. You Counterspell it. He's like "(chuckles)"
feels the shiver run down his spine and briefly glances down at you and goes, "Lovely. But please, I'm trying to concentrate," and stays focused on the Gate spell. Seems not concerned.
MARISHA: Okay. Fuck! That's it. I don't know what else to do. That's it. 
MATT: Okay. Finishing Laudna's go. Fearne, you're up, Chetney on deck. 
LAURA: Fearne!
ASHLEY: Okay. Okay. I have a question. 
MATT: Yes? 
ASHLEY: So say if you were to, I don't know, Polymorph somebody, would their spells drop?
MATT: Their spell remains concentrated. Yeah. [laughter]
ASHLEY: Okay. [shouting] Okay. I am going to cast Polymorph on Ludinus. [cheering] 
MATT: Okay. [cheering] All right. So you're dropping your animal form?
ASHLEY: I'm going to drop my animal form as a bonus action.
MATT: Okay. Your movement is-- 
ASHLEY: 35 feet. 
MATT: 35 feet. Five, 10, 20, 25, 30, 35. What's the range on Polymorph? 
ASHLEY: It is-- Sorry, my Der&Der Beyond is down as well. It is 60 feet. 
MATT: 60 feet. He is definitely within 60 feet. Saving throw on that is?
ASHLEY: Wisdom 19. 
MATT: Wisdom 19. He has advantage on saving throws against spells. 
ASHLEY: Shit!
MATT: That's going to put him at 25. 
ASHLEY: (groan) 
MATT: You rush up to him, you begin to cast the spell, and he doesn't look at you, but he acknowledges it. As the spell comes by, he closes his eyes for a second and it washes over him, and you watch the incantation begin take form and then (crashing) shatter around him. He goes, "I'm trying to work with you here, please!" [laughter] That your turn? 
ASHLEY: That's my turn. 
MATT: All righty. Chetney, you're up. 
TRAVIS: I'm in the hallway. I stand up. What's at the end of the hallway, the brass tunnel that I'm in? Can I see anything? 
MATT: You see the continuation of the hallway and then you can see, eventually about 100 feet down. No, you don't have enough sight on that. You have to get closer. The hallway just continues. 
TRAVIS: No, that's fine. I'll turn around. Laudna has gone back through the thing and I'm just going to use turn invisible (whooshes) and just sit there, holding my bag of holding. 
MATT: You got it. 
TRAVIS: That's my turn. 
MATT: All right, so you are, I'm going to put this here for Invisibility on you, got it. Finishing Chetney's go, Essek, who is now nervously looking over (laughs) at Ludinus, goes,
"Hello." (laughter) "It's been a while." (laughter) Looks back at Fearne and goes-- [laughter] "(sighs) (groans)" And is going to glide over here, next to you, Orym. Over top of you, is going to cast-- 
LAURA: Look up. Look up, Orym. Look up. 
MATT: You just see (buzzing) above your head. Is actually going to float past you over here and is going to cast Gravity Fissure forward. [cheering] And is going to cast it at 7th-level. 
LAURA: Yes! 
MATT: Wait, can he? No, he can't. He already used the spell slots for the day to teleport stuff. So it'll be 6th-level. 
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay.
MATT: Sorry, that's okay. But is going to go, pull it in, whoosh, and unleash it. As he does, you watch the metal device that once held up the floating portion of the soul anchor. The metal (creaking) fold in and crack like it's all being dragged in this line that drags across hits where the gate is and then pierces into the Abyss where Dominox is. As it does, Dominox gets pulled down onto its knees and you see its body get crushed in a little bit. Dominox is going to make a saving throw. Natural 20, it does save. It takes half damage. But still, sitting at a hefty... That's a good damage roll. 21... Not bad. 39 damage reduced to, I'll say to 20. So that undoes the healing from earlier, and a little more, Dominox is looking really rough. Essek is like, "What are we doing? What's the plan? Are we taking this out?" Ashton, you're up, with Imogen on deck. 
TALIESIN: Uh... I don't know, I feel like Ludinus kind of has this covered. [laughter] There's no machine left for me to break. 
MATT: The machine's still standing there. It's heavily damaged, but it's still like. (buzzing) 
TALIESIN: (giggles) Okay, yeah, there's not a lot I can do to this person because I would have to walk up to that portal. I ain't doing that. So, yeah, I'm just going to be watching. Where am I standing right now? 
MATT: You're right over here.
TALIESIN: I'm going to just start backing up my 40 feet. As I'm walking by the machine, I'm enjoying the show, I'm just going to take a couple one-handed swipes at the machine. Just to break it a little more. And just clapping and just doing the: Woo! Losers, baby! Yeah! I'm going to hit the fucking machine. 
MATT: You got it, go for it. 
TALIESIN: I want this to go badly. 25 to hit. 
MATT: That hits.
TALIESIN: Ah, ha! That's-- I don't like that. There we go. 10, that's 22 points of damage? 22 points, oof! 
MATT: Heavy hit on the machine. Sparks go flying out, you feel this jolt go through. Your whole body vibrates with energy. The machine goes (decelerating whooms) and it comes to a rest. 
TRAVIS: Nice! 
MARISHA: Okay. 
SAM: We won?
TALIESIN: You know, I think it's time to leave. I'm going to hit it one more time and then I'm just booking towards the door.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I know I can't quite make it out the door yet, but I'll do what I can. I'll take that hit. So... That's a 15 to hit? 
MATT: What's that?
TALIESIN: 15 to hit.
MATT: Yeah, it's busted, yeah. 
TALIESIN: It's a busted machine. 
MATT: You just. 
TALIESIN: I just did things. 
MATT: Dead arcane horse, you're just, boof.
TALIESIN: Wow, 23 points of damage. 
MATT: 23 points of damage. The machine is absolutely sundered. The Nox Engine is no more. That finishes your go, Ashton.
TALIESIN: Yeah, and I'm just walking out. Woo-hoo, hoo! 
MATT: Imogen, you're up.
LAURA: I am going to run forward, even with the gate. If I can get any past that. 
MATT: 25, 30. You can get right about here. Just barely see through the gate and also see Ludinus up here and you see most everyone else in the center. 
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to use Telekinesis and I'm going to try to grip onto Ludinus. 
MATT: Okay. 
TALIESIN: Yeah!
MATT: What's the roll on that? 
LAURA: That is a strength save. 
MATT: Strength save for Ludinus Da'leth.
LAURA: Against my DC save which is now 21. [cheering] 
MATT: He has advantage on it, since it's a spell effect. All right, that's going to be a... Even with advantage, 18. 
TALIESIN: Yeah!
ASHLEY: Nice. 
MATT: He's going to use a Legendary Resistance. 
ASHLEY: Ah! Come on!
TALIESIN: Counterspell. No.
MATT: (laughs) You try and grasp him as he's concentrating, he feels it happen and as it takes hold, still keeping his hand focused on the gate, he brings his other hand up and just does a wipe. As it does, you feel your arcane hold on him dissipate. It's still up, but it casts it off of his body. You see the patience is wearing thin on his face. 
LAURA: As I have my hands up to use Telekinesis I'm going to just Lightning Bolt him at 7th-level then.
MATT: All right! Go for it.
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: He'll have advantage on this one as well. 
LAURA: That's a dex save of 21. 
MATT: Correct, he rolled a 25. 
LAURA: Ugh! Okay. Okay, okay, okay. That's 12d6 halved. So, 25 points of damage. 
MATT: 25, okay, he takes half damage from that-- 
LAURA: Oh no, 50! 50 points.
MATT: So, 50 points total. 
LAURA: 50 points total. 
MATT: Then 25. Then he is resistant to damage-- 
LAURA: Motherfucker!
MATT: So he takes 13. So the lightning bolt strikes him, but he dodges out of the way. It barely skims off him and bounces off the wall. It hurts him a little bit, but he managed to avoid the majority of it. 
LAURA: Ugh! All right, I rolled a two on my Wild Magic. 
MATT: He still has to roll concentration on the Gate spell, though. Which he has advantage on. Yeah, he's fine. All right, Imogen, does that finish your turn? 
LAURA: Uh-huh. Oh, yeah, fuck it. I'm going to use my bonus action to try to pull him towards the gate. With my telekinetic shove. 
MATT: Here's the thing, if it's an action to try and get him with telekinesis, and then it's a bonus action, your sorcery points could do that--
LAURA: You're right, you're right. That was a quickened spell, yeah, you're right.
MATT: Okay, so, that's going to finish your turn. Brings us up to the top, Teven. Teven is going to say, "Gladly." He's going to rush forward at the edge of the gate and is going to swing his sword twice at the now gravity dragged Dominox. 
SAM: Go my brother, go!
MATT: Not a great roll, that misses. But that's going to hit with a 25. Going to pump in his last spell. So not quite as much Smite damage, but definitely a decent amount. 
TRAVIS: Come on, Teven! 
MATT: That's slick, okay. [cheering] (laughter) 
ASHLEY: How do you want to do this?
MARISHA: Say it to yourself! Say it to yourself! 
MATT: Not the live show! [cheering] 
ROBBIE: Let's go! 
SAM: Maybe the audience should say it? 
LAURA: Oh!
SAM: Audience. 
LAURA: The audience says it! The audience says it! 
MATT: How do I want to do this? [cheering] 
MARISHA: Amazing! 
MATT: You summoned him. Teven there, holding up his blade in front of the gate, the swirling chaos of the Abyss beyond with Dominox crushed to the ground from the Gravity Fissure. Now trying to reach up to claw back out of the gate as it's swirling around. Blade in the air goes, "Ah, my Lord. I smite thee, ancient evil. Fair play in your name." Brings the blade up. "See you never again." And drives it forward into Dominox's chest. [cheering] As it hits, he's going to leap in the air with both hands carving it in half. As it does, it lands and the body splits
and begins to burn to ash on the form of the Abyss where it dissipates forever on its plane.
Dominox sundered. [cheering] I can't fucking believe that.
TRAVIS: Hey, Matt, nice job. [cheering] 
TALIESIN: Well done!
AUDIENCE: Matt, Matt, Matt! 
CAST and AUDIENCE: Matt, Matt, Matt, Matt! 
MATT: (laughs) Goddamn it.
AUDIENCE: Love you! 
MATT: All right, love you too. Orym, you're up. 
LIAM: We're still going? 
LAURA: Yes. 
LIAM: Can you point to me on the map, because I have no idea, he's so small.
MATT: So, Dominox is gone. Ludinus is up here. You are over here by the center. 
LIAM: Cool. 
MATT: The gate still stands there, at the moment. 
LIAM: I'm going to race towards the back wall and use 30-ish feet of movement and then bonus action, Grasping Vine myself to the wall right behind Ludinus. I'm going to Spider-Man myself right to the wall behind him.
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: Okay, that's half my movement, plus my bonus action. 
MATT: Here? 
LIAM: On the wall behind him. I'm going to get ready to spring right behind him. I'm going to get ready to spring off it, pushing attack. 
MATT: Go for it.
LIAM: Oh, I got to see if I hit him first. That hits, that's 29 to hit. [cheering] 
MATT: Oh yeah, that hits. 
LIAM: 18 damage and he has to beat strength 18.
MATT: Strength of 18, all right. No, that's a failure. [cheering]
LIAM: 15 feet towards the gate. I push off the wall. 
MATT: 15 feet towards the gate this way? 
LIAM: Yeah. 
MATT: All right. 
LIAM: And I keep slashing. Pushing attack. 
MATT: First, concentration check. He's going to drop concentration. 
LIAM: Ugh! 
LAURA: Oh! [groaning] 
MATT: The gate vanishes.
LIAM: Well, I don't know that, fuck this guy. That's a 20 to hit. 
MATT: That hits. 
LIAM: Pushing attack. Ha! Well, that is 19 points of damage, strength 18. 
MATT: Strength 18. No, that's a fail. 15 feet more this way?
LIAM: Yeah, down towards the ground. I'm bringing him, I'm grounding. 
MATT: Okay, yeah, so he gets down around say about that angle there. You land on the platform.
LIAM: Let's finish it out. 
MATT: Yep. 
LIAM: That's a 30 to hit. 
MATT: That hits. [cheering] 
LIAM: Trip attack. Strength also.
MATT: Strength. He's going to use a second Legendary Resistance to resist that.
LIAM: Okay, 24 points of damage. 
MATT: All righty. 
LIAM: Hasted action.
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: 30. [cheering] Eight points of damage.
MATT: How much? 
LIAM: Eight points of damage. 
MATT: All righty. 
LIAM: 29 to hit. [cheering] Seven points of damage. 
MATT: Well, hasted action is just a single attack, though. 
LIAM: It is? It's not my three slashes? 
MATT: It's just a bonus action. No, no, no, hasted-- Hey, Vax, I know you're trying. 
LIAM: Oh no, I'm remembering Percival with Hasted. I'm remembering wrong. 
MATT: That's okay, no, no. Sorry, hasted action is just an additional attack as a bonus you get for free on top of your bonus action and action. 
LIAM: Oh, so action surge is what the triples came from. 
MATT: Correct, yeah. 
TALIESIN: Yep, yep.
LIAM: Got it.
MATT: Yeah, no worries. I know, the first time you use Haste as Orym, so it will be a little confusing. 
LIAM: Done. 
MATT: It's all good. All right, so that concludes that. [cheering] Hell yeah. Does that finish your go, Orym?
LIAM: Yeah, that's fine. 
MATT: All righty. 
LAURA: Oh, no, this is Ludinus' turn.
MATT: Now it's Ludinus' go. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. 
MARISHA: Oh boy, oh boy.
LIAM: The good news is I have 11 hit points. [exclaiming]
MATT: Ludinus taking the hits. Like in a flying, barely manages to hold on in the air. Looks back at you as you land and just goes, "I merely wish to talk." And is going to fly 60 feet
back into the tunnel, just past where you are, Chetney. (laughter) Like, just rushes past you. (whooshes) And stands there with his arms crossed. 
TRAVIS: (mouth fart) (laughter)
MARISHA: All right, let's do it. 
MATT: What are you all doing? 
LAURA: Uh, well, okay... We should-- 
TRAVIS: Let's talk. 
LAURA: We should talk to him. 
MARISHA: Laudna follows Ludinus. 
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: I'm staying quiet, invisible. 
LAURA: I'm going to be like, where is Fearne? No, you dropped your form. 
ASHLEY: I did.
LAURA: I'm going to say: Hi, Fearne. 
ASHLEY: Hey how are you? Oh my god. I'm going to start walking through, I start walking out as well, towards Ludinus. 
TALIESIN: I drop gravity and yeah. 
MARISHA: Above table question, do we have the teleportation staff charged? 
LAURA: Let me look at my inventory.
SAM: As we walk over, I'm going to ask Teven for his autograph. [laughter]
MATT: He looks to you. 
LAURA: Not enough. 
MATT: You did help.
SAM: You can sign my armor.
TALIESIN: It's a brand. He's actually going to brand.
MATT: He goes and signs the side of your armor, "Teven Klask". (laughter) Hands it back to you and goes like, "Those are rare." (laughter) He keeps walking. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god. 
MATT: So you all begin to funnel in. As you're all funneling in, you're sitting there hiding and Ludinus looks at you and goes (nods).
MARISHA: Aw. 
LAURA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: He probably saw someone else. (laughter) 
MATT: "Well, now that we're all here and we know where we stand, I appreciate those of you who helped and those who didn't, I understand. I don't hold it against you. You are indeed a resilient troop of misfits, aren't you? You've now impressed me a handful of times. I'm certain you've come here with mal-intent against me and my cause. And much is muddled in historical times. As plots as long obfuscated as ours can lead to expected misunderstanding. I do not see you as my enemy. I never have. On the contrary, you have the potential to be instrumental in ushering in the new age. I would like to have a chance to show you something. An opportunity to understand each other. Speak your mind and I can speak mine, but all I ask is a moment to show you. Follow at your own behest." He turns and continues to walk down the hallway away from you. 
LAURA: I look at Laudna. And I follow Ludinus. [cheering] 
MARISHA: And I follow Imogen. [cheering] 
TRAVIS: I'll follow Laudna. [laughter]
TALIESIN: Losers?
ROBBIE: Oh yeah. 
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, let's go. This is fucked up, yep, walking down that hall.
ASHLEY: Orym? 
LIAM: (coughs) Go ahead. 
ASHLEY: Well, I'm not going without you.
LIAM: You're going to have to hold me up. 
ASHLEY: I'll pick up Orym. I gotcha. 
SAM: I'll help. [laughter] And I'll pump 30 points of healing into him. [cheering] You fought bravely, little one. Are you single? [laughter]
LIAM: Bro, you're huge. [laughter]
SAM: That's okay. [laughter] (laughter)
TALIESIN: I'm so happy. (laughter)
TRAVIS: Don't make us draw that. 
MATT: As you all... [laughter] (laughter) -- bruised, a bit lost and concerned, feeling the tension in the air as nothing but the sound of your footsteps echo down this long metallic hallway. Teven just follows along curious, enjoying the ride to its end since he was summoned as part of this pact. Essek nervously in the back. "If we're not going too far in, I can get us out, if need be. Just let me know, I'm ready." 
MARISHA: Let's all stay close, nearby one another in case we need to move fast. 
MATT: "Very well." He adjusts his cape and his mantle and the stoic expression takes over as he glides along with you. You step down this extended, wide, echoing hallway until eventually it opens into this massive domed chamber, the ceiling itself cracked heavily and you can see it's still held firm, but along the dome there are patterned globes of a quartz-like crystal, a lattice, like an umbrella that spreads out around it. You can see numerous gold beams that connect between them with extremely intricate, scattered runes that seem to interconnect all of these like a web network. Within the dead center of this wide, circular chamber lies two massive statues of robed mages holding lanterns, one of them fallen and broken, the other still holding against time, holding against the memory of the historical fall of Aeor. You can see them both flanking a central, damaged, metallic dome construction with massive rivets and textured arcane technology around it. 
It's next to that Ludinus stands, arms crossed, looking out at you with a soft smile. "Welcome. Welcome to the Occultus Thalamus. The high mages of the Age of Arcanum were the greatest minds of Exandrian history. The call to innovation created great societies of ingenuity, ambition and endless potential. Using the gifts of the gods bestowed upon them, they began to unravel the great secrets of the universe. Prideful, perhaps, but beautiful. And they feared it. Once the child becomes the parent, often those in power can grow resentful, and they did. And when war came crawling around, a war of omnipotent children bickering, these brilliant minds had to adapt, focus to implements of war beyond just implements of progress. When the divine threatens your families, your children, the very future of life as you know it, they reveal themselves as the enemy. I saw it. I was there in the final days of the Calamity. I watched mountains brought to dust, whole countries set aflame, the tantrums of the gods wantonly murdering and massacring the majority of all civilization on Exandria. When the dust had settled and their rivalry paused, the few of us that survived wallowed in the dust and ash and spent centuries trying to rebuild from what scraps we could find, while they vanished beyond their gate to protect us, or perhaps to hide from us once they saw what was capable. I survived, watched as a child, acknowledged what they wrought as they fled to their mystical hideaways. This world has been manipulated, duped in its opinion, its understanding of divinity. For those that write the history books are those in power and there is no power higher than them. There's a reason they fear me. Some of it's Predathos, yes, but I found something equally important here. Sometimes the most important weapon is information. And these mageocracies in many places had ways of recording things, knowledge, history, some lost to time, but Aeor created the Thalamus, a device that recorded the spiritual memory of all in the city, including those that brought it low. I've spent a day or so studying this and I found something, something I think you want to see." 
He reaches over to the cracked central dome and places his hands near it, and as it does, (cracking) it begins to open up, mist (spurting) billows out and you watch as this light green orb emerges, an endlessly fractal network of threads of Arcane power, layered upon themselves over and over again, and it drifts beyond them. "Within here lies the memories of Aeor, fractured, but enough. And what I will show you, I will show the rest of Exandria." As he changes the hold on the sides of his hands, the orb begins to spin rapidly, whirs loudly. (spinning) It begins to brighten. This light begins to burst and pulse. (light expanding) All of you feel instinctively like you have to recoil as entirely the very space around you is filled with light. Your spirit is filled with light. Your mind is filled with light. All there is is light. 
[cheering
[laughter] 
BRENNAN: Light. [cheering] [clapping] In a space beyond the real, there was made of light, a palace, which is to say a garden, or a fountain, or a mirror, or a heart, or more than any of these, an idea, a swirling nebula of glimmering potential, cresting eternally upon the threshold of being. But if it aids you, Exandrian, to imagine what the mortal eye can never see, envision then, as I have said, a palace, its floors, the dancing stars in unmapped orbit. Its ramparts, light and ice and fire. Its hallways, memory and time. Our story begins at the ending of the infinite, at the doom that pierced eternity, fractured images of a lost world and of the ones who lost it. Remember now a place which was not less, but rather more than real. Remember tragedy, betrayal, calamity, downfall. [cheering] In the recording of this memory,
may the answers to many questions lie, but one question yet and shall forevermore remain:
Is it Thursday yet? [cheering] [clapping]
MATT: That's it. Thank you all so very much for joining us here live at the Greek. [cheering]
And what unique turns the journey of Bells Hells' visions will take them next. [cheering] We'll see you all soon. Let's all step out for a bow, please. [clapping] [cheering] [laughter] Mwah! Good night, everybody. [cheering] 
MARISHA: We love you, LA!  [cheering]

Cooldown[]
BRENNAN: Thank you, man!
TALIESIN: You look like--
BRENNAN: Oh, wow.
TALIESIN: Your eyes just fucking--
MATT: It's fucking like Asimov Celestia.
TALIESIN: They were hanging like a foot in front of your face. It's really going to--
BRENNAN: Oh, shit.
TRAVIS: The camera angle on the screen, when you looked up, it was like (boom). It was just below your brow. It was great.
MARISHA: A-maz-ing. Dude.
TALIESIN: All right, cool.
ROBBIE: I'm going to have an adrenaline dump so hard tonight.
TALIESIN: I know. It's going to hit-- you're going to be like up and then down.
ROBBIE: Absolutely.
ASHLEY: And like at a hard turn.
MARISHA: Hey, everyone, it's Post Team. Yea, Post Team! Love you, Post!
MAX: Good game, good game. Celtics in five.
ROBBIE: Perfection, baby!
MATT: I love it.
LIAM: Where's the Cooldown?
MARISHA: Right here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. See this mic? This is going to record us.
TALIESIN: Hey look, it's cheese.
BRENNAN: Can I sit in this chair?
TALIESIN: Yeah, because this is a whole thing.
MARISHA: Sure. I'll sit in the chair.
TRAVIS: So, Robbie?
ROBBIE: Yeah?
MARISHA: Robbie!
TRAVIS: How does it feel to make a Grand Demon from before time Riverdance?
ROBBIE: I couldn't have done it without Sammy baby. What a fucking save. Oh my god.
TRAVIS: That was so clutch.
MARISHA: So the tragedy bard, but-- You're stepping on my skirt!
TALIESIN: So you're multiclassing? Are you crazy?
SAM: Paladin/Bard, yeah.
TALIESIN: Oh my god.
ASHLEY: Very cool build.
MATT: Yeah, and I was like, this is too fun. I don't fucking care. Let's go.
TALIESIN: The minute you said Platinum Dragon, I'm like, "Oh, please, have Asmodeus be-- I want Asmodeus so goddamn badly."
ASHLEY: I had a feeling.
TALIESIN: That's all that I wanted.
MARISHA: The character's monochromatic?
ROBBIE: I thought the Platinum Dragon was like a strip club.
SAM: He's all black and white, yeah.
MATT: When you showed me the art, I was like, "This is amazing. I can't believe this is what you're coming back with and it's perfect."
TALIESIN: It's the Tyrant. It's the Tyrant Dragon.
SAM: And he's horny.
LIAM: That minotaur really--
TRAVIS and MARISHA: He's horny.
ROBBIE: He's very horny.
TALIESIN and MATT: So horny!
LIAM: That campaign two minotaur really got under your skin.
LAURA: I love that you went little character, little character, little character... (deep) minotaur!
MATT: Yeah, straight up.
ASHLEY: You also play with your hair.
MATT: I know.
MARISHA: Your Cher moment?
TALIESIN: I love that it's technically a himbo who is, in fact, attracted to a red flag now. So it's just--
ROBBIE: He loves the dramas.
MARISHA: This is also--
MATT: Taliesin, it's the pocket flags.
MARISHA: --the first character that you've made yourself and Liam hasn't made for you?
SAM: Liam didn't make Taryon.
LIAM: Yeah, I've only given him inspiration for the beginning of campaigns.
SAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: But not when you die and come back as someone else.
SAM: Yeah, then I do my own.
MARISHA: Right.
MATT: I love that.
ASHLEY: Such a cool suit.
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah, you look great.
ASHLEY: With the turtleneck? Rad.
LAURA: You made it yourself.
TRAVIS: Hey, we made it out with the crystal. We did the thing.
MATT: Yeah, you have a soul anchor now.
MARISHA: And it was killed on his plane of existence.
MATT: Correct. So he's dead-dead.
LAURA: So he's not coming back. We have nothing connected to the soul anchor.
TRAVIS: So Ludinus was right. He was correct.
MATT: Correct.
ROBBIE: Wait, I thought he was trying to push-- Ludinus was trying to get him to push us into the portal.
TRAVIS: We were trying to push Ludinus into the portal as well. But I think he said as long as Dominox is in the Hells-- or in the Abyss. When he gets killed there, which he did, then he turns into nothing.
LIAM: We have the soul anchor, but we are also with an archmage who is like a thousand years old with us still.
TRAVIS: At least a thousand.
ROBBIE: Were you trying to push him into the portal? The push?
MARISHA: No, I have no pushing--
SAM: That was Liam.
LAURA: Ludinus didn't see us take the crystal. As far as he knows, that thing was destroyed.
MARISHA: Correct.
TRAVIS: But he could see through Invisibility, so...
TALIESIN: Well, it's not invisible.
LAURA: I don't think he could see. He couldn't see into the bag.
MATT: He saw you holding the bag.
TRAVIS: Can you locate an item in another dimension like the bag of holding?
MATT: Most of the spells don't go cross-dimensional.
ASHLEY: Do we know if it's real Ludinus, or...
LAURA: Snow Ludinus? Snowdinus? I think it's really him.
TALIESIN: I think it's real him.
LAURA: Because I remember them saying.
LIAM: I know from Caleb, the Simulacrum spell says that it seems like the person, like there's nothing about it being lesser than.
MATT: The only thing that you noted of the last simulacrum that you met was it had an orange gem in its forehead, but that was so that Ludinus could perceive through the simulacrum. This one doesn't have a gem, but also, you don't know if this is just not utilizing that technology.
LAURA: But who was it that we talked to that said Ludinus went there himself.
MATT: That was Evoroa, the Bormodo that was on Ruidus. Yeah.
MARISHA: Evoroa and then also...
LIAM: I don't know that Evoroa would know 100%.
LAURA: That's true, that's true.
TALIESIN: Yeah, this is a very paranoid person.
LIAM: And if you were going to go fight a demon, would you do-- I mean, maybe it was Ludinus, but would you do it yourself or would you send a drone with all the same abilities as yourself?
TALIESIN: Yeah, send it--
MARISHA: But also, Astrid was also like, Yeah, I know he went up there because he was calling, like shit was going down.
ROBBIE: Hey, we took that on lower level, way lower level, we took that scale mail. Would that help anybody?
MATT: We'll find out.
LAURA: I don't know. We'll have to check it out.
ROBBIE: Is that good armor?
MATT: --when you decide to take a look at it.
ROBBIE: Give it a little vintage treatment to clean it up, yeah.
MATT: It was a scaley--
TRAVIS: Little Prestidig'.
LAURA: It's a little stanky.
ROBBIE: Some acetone.
MATT: It's got some smells to it, yeah.
TALIESIN: Some bleach.
TRAVIS: At least Ludinus wants to talk to us this time instead of monologuing over us and the rest of the world.
LAURA: We kind of let him monologue a little bit there.
LIAM: Brennan, I'm so ready for your run.
ALL: Yeah.
LIAM: So ready for your run.
BRENNAN: It was so sick. Matt talked to me about the framing of that moment months ago. And I was like gasping at the idea of... it's such a cool diegetic in world, out of world, like moving from one place to another along with the perspective of the characters, which is just so sick. And it means that everything that we're going to do is going to really matter the moment we jump back. Because the immediacy of whatever that story is comes roaring back into the immediate aftermath of what happened tonight. 
LAURA: It just instantly proves Ludinus wrong.
TRAVIS: This is technology that recorded what happened to anybody inside of Aeor.
LAURA: Like the entire city.
MATT: Yeah. You'll talk about it more probably when you come back, but it's essentially not too dissimilar to Patia's orb.  It's a thing that collects masses of information. But this one was, like a lot of Aeorian tech, tuned to things of divine threads. And this one specifically essentially was a, for lack of a better term, a... what's the word I'm looking for? Lack of a better term that I can't remember right now. A surveillance device for all beings in Aeor where it just recorded their presence, their memories, the things that were there, and delved in. It's like super, super invasive memory keeping. The Thalamus was a secret project within Aeor.
TRAVIS: And secret keeping also as well? Like thoughts and secrets too?
MATT: Oh, yeah.
TRAVIS: Whoa.
TALIESIN: Your advertising got super specific. Totally cool.
LAURA: "How do they know?"
BRENNAN: I love the idea that Matt's going to have to be in the wings for the run and if it gets too in one narrative direction, Ludinus starts shaking the VHS, and being like, "Actually, fuck what I said. Never mind. This thing fucking sucks."
MATT: Pulls out an Atari cartridge. He's like, "(blowing) Hold on!"
BRENNAN: "I have the wrong orb. Hold on. This one's a home movie."
TRAVIS: "That's the Betamax version. Oh no!"
MARISHA: As soon as you started talking about it, I was like, "Is it Patia's orb?" That was the first--
MATT: It's related technology. 
MARISHA: Related tech.
MATT: Yeah, like a lot of the mageocracies, even though in my mind the Age of Arcanum, there was a lot of rivalry behind them, but there was also sharing information, there was stealing information. And then when the Calamity kicked off and the loss of Avalir, it became more Cold War over time. But even in pre-Calamity, it was a lot of secret exchanges of information, a lot of selling of secrets and a lot of trying to develop faster than other mageocracies, and other flying cities of the Age of Arcanum. So what is is now is a hundred years past Patia's orb and the technology of Avalir, developed with the idea of war in mind, which is why they have it there as a device to essentially record everything in there. Someone still has to go through it, of course, but it has all the information there so they can go back and be like, "All right, this person had--" It's very like "Minority Report" in a way because that's just how fucked Aeor is. I'm excited.
TRAVIS: So is it fair to say that Ludinus got through Dominox and was fucking up his shit, but essentially was doing what he needed to do, and we came through and just kind of like cleaned up after him?
MATT: Kind of, yeah. It's like, in my mind, Ludinus had been trying to deal with this because it wiped out a lot of the Vanguard there, and he himself was like, "How can I get what I need without having to deal with this demon?" And it's been a challenge. And he had just barely gotten a touch of it when you all showed up and helped him basically free up the Thalamus.
SAM: He seems very reasonable.
MATT: He's a very reasonable guy!
LAURA: He does.
TRAVIS: Don't you say that shit. We've been talking to him for five minutes.
SAM: Maybe he's okay.
TRAVIS: He was so old. He's so old!
LAURA: But he's hot.
TRAVIS: We don't even know who he is.
LAURA: So obviously, he's going to be fine.
TALIESIN: Has our hot scale changed now, because there's so much hot in this group?
LAURA: I know, there's like-- 
TALIESIN: I feel like we've had to change to like--
MATT: If Ian McKellen's hot, Ludinus is hot. 
TRAVIS: So he said he was there at the Calamity, right? Confirmed.
MATT: He said he was present.
TRAVIS: We don't know who he is. We don't know what body he's in. We don't know shit, right?
MATT: This would be a good period of conversation when we come back from this vision. He still wants to talk. He wants to talk like back and forth. Let's get to know each other after I've shown you this. And see where we're at.
TRAVIS: Who can summon tea? I want high tea.
ASHLEY: This outfit, Travis?
TALIESIN: Cad's busy.
ASHLEY: While you're just being normal talk.
MARISHA: I know, it's so much.
MATT: Yeah, there it is.
LAURA: Yes.
BRENNAN: For all of our Beacon subscribers.
MATT: That's how you do it!
BRENNAN: That's why you got it behind the paywall.
MARISHA: Not untrue.