List of Transcripts

Contents

1 Pre-Show
2 Part I
3 Break
4 Part II


Pre-Show[]
AABRIA: Hi, welcome to episode six of Exandria Unlimited. I am your DM, Aabria Iyengar, putting it together slowly but surely. And with me, are we going with the Odd Lot? Hot Cross Bun? It doesn't matter. Why don't you just introduce yourselves and we can get into the chaos. Let's talk with Robbie. 
ROBBIE: (gasps) Let's do start with Robbie. Hello, my name is Robbie Daymond, and I am playing Dorian Storm, the air genasi bard here to entertain you and potentially betray and murder you all. 
AIMEE: Yes. 
AABRIA: Mm. Vibes! Thank you for that gift. Inspiration. 
LIAM: I am Liam O'Brien. I'm playing Orym of the Air Ashari, a halfling. Not really a bard, but tonight I will be serving up hot cross buns. 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
AIMEE: Hooray. 
ASHLEY: Hello! Ashley Johnson here playing Fearne Calloway. Our faun/satyr druid who is just questionable in all things. (laughter) We're not sure! (laughter) 
ANJALI: Hello, I'm Anjali Bhimani. The size of my enthusiasm is rivaled only by the size of my hair. I am playing Fy'ra Rai, the fire genasi monk with a heart of gold and tattoos to match. 
AIMEE: Yes. 
MATT: Hell yeah. 
ANJALI: They're gold, get it? 
MATT: Hi, I'm Matthew Mercer. I play Dariax Zaveon, the dwarf sorcerer, and he has always been and will continue to be a problem. 
AIMEE: Yes. 
AIMEE: Hi, I'm Aimee Carrero. I play Opal, Hexblade warlock, and tonight she might succeed in vomiting up her twin. 
ANJALI: Wow! 
AABRIA: Wow, good informa-- 
ANJALI: Always makes me think of My Big Fat Greek Wedding. "It was her twin!" 
AIMEE: "They found teeth in my spinal cord, it was my twin." (laughter) 
ANJALI: Sorry. 
AABRIA: High on the list of movies I have not seen. 
ANJALI: It always makes me think of that! "You know, they did the b-b-bibopsy? And it was. Inside her neck was her twin. Spanakopita?" (laughter) 
AABRIA: Amazing. On that note, a perfect segue. Good for me! Handling it. All right, these episodes are pre-taped so we're going to throw it to our very good friend, cozy Matt in the future for some announcements. Take it away, cozy Matt! 
MATT: Thank you, Aabria. Now this episode is sponsored by our friends at NordVPN, providers of the highest-quality encryption for your internet traffic, while hiding your IP and physical location. With over 5,400 servers in 59 countries, it is easy to get better internet speed and protection with one simple click. And it is available on every major platform, including Windows, iOS, Android, and Linux. Go to NordVPN.com/EXU, or use the coupon "EXU" to get a two-year plan plus a bonus gift with a huge discount. This episode is also sponsored by our friends at Ravensburger and their new game, "ALIEN: Fate of the Nostromo." This immersive board game designed by Scott Rogers recreates the tension of the classic thriller film "Alien" and features six sculpted minis of the film's characters, including Ripley, Brett, Dallas, Lambert, and the alien. 
OMAR: (barks) 
MATT: Omar loves that movie. Players will complete different objectives and one of five final missions each time you play, so it is always a new game. Releasing on August 1st, the game is available for pre-order now and can be found in stores and online at bit․ly/ALIENFateoftheNostromo. And as always, you can visit Ravensburger's Twitter page, @RavensburgerNA, for a chance to win a copy of the game. Better beat Omar to it, he's already halfway there. Thank you so much for joining us live on Twitch and YouTube. To join our live and moderated community chat, please head on over to our Twitch channel. And back to you, Aabria. 
AABRIA: Wow, Matt. So cozy, and what was that outfit? It matched: the nails, the makeup. And did you make that yourself? Oh my god! You are powerful in your abilities to create outfits. What a look. 
LIAM: I mean, you can do anything with food. 
AABRIA: Yeah, right?! 
AIMEE: Can we get a tutorial? 
AABRIA: Honestly. 
ASHLEY: Ooh, yeah! 
AABRIA: I would love that! 
ASHLEY: The skills. 
ANJALI: Yeah, so multi-talented. 
MATT: That's great. Cool. Cool. Cool game, y'all. (laughter) 
AABRIA: Yep! Now that we've broken Matt's spirit, I think we're ready to begin tonight's episode of Exandria Unlimited. (cheering) 
(dramatic music) 

Part I[]
AABRIA: The six of you have spent weeks traversing the jungles of the Rifenmist Peninsula. You've had dreams and experiences and bits of temptation along the way, but you've come through it. And you reached what very well could've been your goal. You found some of that runic writing, a ruin in the jungle, but you were pushed, asked, begged by the Wild Mother herself to keep going forward to seek some deeper truth. And now more time has passed. And Fy'ra Rai, please make a survival check for me. 
ANJALI: 16. 
AABRIA: Roll a d6. 
ANJALI: Four. 
AABRIA: The way has been cleared for you, and after four more days of travel the terrain begins to shift. It gets rockier. Hilly with basalt and porphyry jutting out of the ground at strange angles. And you know what? Let me get a group perception check as you walk. 
MATT: All righty. Yeah! Six! 
AABRIA: Oh, buddy! (laughs) 
LIAM: Rolled a two and three. 
AIMEE: Five. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Five. 
ANJALI: 20. 
AABRIA: There we go. 
LIAM: Seven. 
ROBBIE: A dirty 20. 
AABRIA: All right. 
AIMEE: Okay! Two of us! 
ANJALI: Yeah, mine's dirty, too. Dirty, dirty 20. 
AABRIA: Ooh! My dirty genasi with their dirty 20s. 
ANJALI: Rrow! 
AABRIA: You have noticed that the terrain is starting to-- even as it's getting rockier and a different kind of difficult terrain to traverse, you've been sloping downward now for about two days. And you know you're close. And you begin to hear the sounds of water collecting into little rivulets and streams that you follow as you walk. 
ANJALI: Little brother. How are you feeling? 
ROBBIE: Good. Better. 
ANJALI: Good. No--? 
ROBBIE: Not quite sure what that means, but no, nothing like that. 
ANJALI: I was aiming down, not up. 
ROBBIE: Sure. 
ANJALI: Yes, right. There is a different look in your eyes since you had that fitful sleep the other night. The look of-- It was a look of recognition. 
ROBBIE: I just feel-- I feel like the way is a bit more clear. You can feel it too, can't you? The wind feels like it's pushing us forward. It's the first time we've had any direction in this whole journey, and-- I'm glad you're here with us. I'm sorry for my behavior before. 
ANJALI: There is no need to apologize. You have always been-- You have always been strong-willed. 
ROBBIE: Well, I'm just grateful you're with us. And thank you. Are we having a private conversation? 
AIMEE: Yeah, do we overhear this? 
AABRIA: You can decide that! I don't know. Probably. 
MATT: I wasn't paying attention. 
AABRIA: Oh, that's fair. You guys are right next to Dariax-- 
ANJALI: Did you not see the cone of silence around us? 
MATT: Yeah, I'm literally staring at both of you and just-- 
AABRIA: Nothing. 
MATT: I'm hungry. 
LIAM: I'm Liam. 
AIMEE: For the pies. 
LIAM: It's hard to tell sometimes. 
ASHLEY: How long have we been traveling at this point? 
AABRIA: Total since leaving Byroden, it's probably been about three and a half weeks. 
AIMEE: And then since leaving our last-- 
AABRIA: It's been two and a half months. 
AIMEE: No, I'm saying the ruins. Or the rune. 
AABRIA: Oh, the ruins? Four days. 
AIMEE: Oh, four days, okay. 
ANJALI: Dariax. 
MATT: Yeah? 
ANJALI: When you... made your writing, rubbing, rub-writing. 
AABRIA: We didn't have to do that. 
MATT: When I rubbed my writing, yeah. 
ANJALI: Did you see all the runes of the same type? 
MATT: I'm really good at copying. So, probably? But... I did a good job, right? 
ROBBIE: I think as good as any of us could have done. 
MATT: So yeah, maybe. 
ANJALI: Just one? 
MATT: No, I drew a lot of them. 
ANJALI: But just one language? 
ROBBIE: It felt like it to me. 
MATT: See? We're good. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
ANJALI: So no other language to compare it to, to translate what the first language is? 
ROBBIE: We saw what it was even though we couldn't read it. A laundry list, yes? 
MATT: Sure. Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Supplies! 
ANJALI: Okay. 
MATT: I pat her on the shoulder. 
AIMEE: Hey Fy'ra, do you know anything about a purple lady? Does that ring a bell? 
ANJALI: I will need more context than that. 
AIMEE: Okay, well, my sister was saying-- who's inhabiting my body, I guess, too-- was saying that she kept seeing a purple lady? I just, I don't know. 
ANJALI: A lady in purple or a purple lady? 
AIMEE: That's a good question. 
ASHLEY: Wait, I'm so sorry. What did you just say? Your sister is in your-- Inhabiting your body? 
AIMEE: Yeah, it's really weird. And she doesn't even know where her body is. Can you imagine being that irresponsible about your possessions? 
ASHLEY: My. 
AIMEE: Oh, one second. She taps the pendant. Ted! 
AABRIA: Make a charisma saving throw for me. 
MATT: I've had a few benders that ended similarly, I guess, but eventually figured it out. 
AIMEE: Six. 
AABRIA: "What!" 
AIMEE: Ted! You didn't tell me! Is the lady all purple-- 
AABRIA: "I'm busy!" 
AIMEE: What are you busy doing? 
AABRIA: "It's-- What-- what do you need?" 
AIMEE: Is the lady in purple wearing purple or is her skin purple? 
AIMEE: "I don't know. I just am aware of purple." 
AIMEE: I mean, do you see her? 
AABRIA: "I'm inside you! With what eyes?!" 
AIMEE: Stop saying that! Ew! Okay, so you don't know if she's made of purple, you just know she's maybe wearing a purple outfit? 
AABRIA: "Just-- Probably the latter. I don't know!" 
AIMEE: Okay. Bye. 
LIAM: There another half of that conversation? 
AIMEE: Yes. 
ANJALI: Have you not been seeing her to have these conversations the entire trip? These one-sided conversations. 
LIAM: I heard her talk to herself a little bit. 
AIMEE: No, no, no. I don't talk to myself. Talking to my sister, Ted, who left her body somewhere unknown! She says that maybe she was wearing purple. Is there any significance to-- Hold on. Did she seem evil? 
ROBBIE: I'm going to walk over to Dariax-- 
AABRIA: There's no response. 
ROBBIE: -- and say: What are the odds that Ted is real? 
MATT: Odds are about as good as wanting to trust somebody who wears all purple. 
AIMEE: Hello? 
ROBBIE: That's a good point. 
AIMEE: I'm sorry, she's not responding. Ted! Well, it seems that the connection's bad. She said that she kept seeing-- Okay, so I had this dream four nights ago. Whenever we left after our test, after I wrestled the croc, I had this dream where I was talking to my sister who then was like, "I'm in your body," and I'm like, "Stop." But then she also told me, she was like, "Do you see the purple lady?" And I'm like, "What purple lady?" And she was like, "That purple lady by the fire." And that's it. I don't know. Do you know anybody who wears a lot of purple? 
LIAM: Doesn't seem like much to go on. 
AIMEE: I know. 
AABRIA: You know what? Squad history check. 
MATT: 18. 
AABRIA: Oh sh--! Okay! 
AIMEE: Dirty 20! 
ASHLEY: Dang! 
AABRIA and ANJALI: Okay! 
AIMEE: I know, finally. 
ANJALI: 13. 
AABRIA: All right! 
ASHLEY: 10. 
LIAM: 19. 
ROBBIE: 21. 
AABRIA: Oh my god! Okay! We'll start here. Fy'ra, you... rifling through everything you know about deities and magical-- purple is a color associated with magic a lot. So that could mean a plethora of beings and deities and fey. There's not a lot to go on there. You need more information. However, everyone, except maybe Fearne. No, I'll give it to you all. You do remember a squad of people that were clad in all purple. The elves from Syngorn. 
MATT: A squad in all purple. The Purple Man Group out of Kymal. 
AABRIA: I hate you. Hate you. 
AIMEE: Ted. I know you're listening. Was that the lady I gave attitude to that one time? 
AABRIA: You feel stress, but no response. 
AIMEE: Anyone have any food or something I can-- I'm really stressed out. Ted, just let me know, okay? Bye. I did give attitude to this lady once. An elf. Remember? She was like, after we saw evil you and then you were like, "Don't take it out on her, you're projecting." And I'm like, "I'm not projecting," but I totally was projecting. 
ANJALI: The warden of the gate. The ones we left behind. 
AIMEE: Yes! 
ASHLEY: M-M-Myr'atta? I have it written down. I don't know if this is correct. 
AABRIA: Yo, inspiration because you wrote the name down and said it correctly! 
ASHLEY: Okay. I do remember her. She was very-- 
AIMEE: Oh yeah. Myr'atta Elsinore? 
AABRIA: Niselor. 
ASHLEY: What is it? Because I was nervous to say it. 
AABRIA: No, you're good. 
ASHLEY: I have a question mark next to it. Niselor. N-I-S-E-L-O-R. 
AIMEE: She was wearing purple. Is there a way for her to be spying on us? 
ANJALI: The ways of magic are powerful, but more in your wealth of knowledge than mine, perhaps. 
AIMEE: Oh, I have no wealth of knowledge. 
ASHLEY: It is very possible, I think. 
MATT: I thought I was more of a navy myself, but I'll go with the group. 
ANJALI: Can I use The Gift to see if I need to protect them from this purple lady? 
AABRIA: Yeah. Roll with disadvantage. 
ANJALI: Which one is it? Insight or perception? Oh, they're both the same. Doesn't matter. Oh, but that was plus that-- okay, it's 19. 
AABRIA: With a 19, you're walking, and now the actual canopy overhead as you've been walking has broken up a little bit more and there's big rays of sun poking through. And as you walk into one, your vision disappears as it's trying to adjust to a big flash of light. And in that moment, your eyes, the inward ones turn not just to yourself, but to Opal, and you see a set of eyes behind Opal. Purple. She's being watched right now. 
ANJALI: Stay close. 
ASHLEY: What's wrong? 
ANJALI: You will be fine. 
AIMEE: Okay. Do I have to-- Say magic or--? 
ANJALI: You will be fine. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
ASHLEY: What does that mean? Is she okay? 
AIMEE: I feel okay. 
ANJALI: Everything is fine. We should keep moving, though. 
MATT: How does the path look ahead? Is it getting denser and denser? Is there a defined path that we're supposed to be taking at this point? 
AABRIA: So you're walking forward and it's actually, everything is going more to stone and rockiness and less of that heavy green canopy. Go ahead and make a survival check for me. 
MATT: All right. Hell yeah. Five. 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
AIMEE: He's not giving up on those dice! 
ROBBIE: He stubbed his toe on a piece of basalt! (laughter) 
MATT: I'm the best! (laughter) 
AABRIA: Nailing it! I will give that you hear more water. 
MATT: Is anyone thirsty? Or got to pee? I got both. 
LIAM: I could do both of those things. 
AIMEE: How can you be thirsty and have to pee? 
LIAM: Oh, easily if you hydrate a lot. 
ANJALI: Move quickly. 
LIAM: Kind of a cycle. 
MATT: Water... I'm hearing something. Is it river water, is it like a waterfall? Is it like-- 
AABRIA: You rolled a five. 
MATT: Yeah, you're right. 
AABRIA: I'm just kidding. 
MATT: No, it's valid! That's valid! I'm assuming it's a gorgeous waterfall and it's... somewhere. 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
ANJALI: Follow me. And I go a different direction. 
AABRIA: Oh, okay. 
ANJALI: Towards the sound of the water, but not where he is pointing. 
AABRIA: Yeah. Respect. 
MATT: I will swallow my pride and follow her. 
AABRIA: Respect. You curve around in a different direction and you walk maybe 30 more feet and realize that you guys were at the edge of a cliff. And yeah, there's a massive water-- Well, it's not massive. It's a 12-foot waterfall a couple of feet off to the side, and you're looking down now into this huge basin. And at the center of the basin where it slopes down looking from here, maybe 30 or 40 feet, you see the massive 100-foot high walls of gray-green of a citadel, but not the ruins of one. A fully-formed city. Massive. With a low fog sort of roiling around its edges at the center. 
LIAM: For clarity. The waterfall you said is only 12 feet. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
LIAM: This city, are we seeing over the tops of all buildings in this city? 
AABRIA: No. Sorry. 
LIAM: Is it rising? 
AABRIA: Yeah, it's about 100 yards in you see the beginning of this city and it rises up. So it looks like if you were on the level land, you've been walking as a slope for a while, that the whole thing would probably be right around the canopy top. But where you are now, where the tree line falls away, you can see from a top to tip is about 100 feet high. 
AIMEE: Do we know what the city is? Is it on the map? 
ANJALI: I just take a deep breath in. We have arrived. 
AIMEE: Where? 
MATT: To--? 
ANJALI: Welcome to Niirdal-Poc. 
LIAM: You knew we were going here? Specifically? 
ROBBIE: I thought this was supposed to be a ruin, not a fully-functional city. 
AABRIA: Anyone that would like to can make a history check. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: Having heard the name. You don't need to! You've been here! 
ANJALI: Bad dice! 
MATT: Decline. 
AABRIA: Oh! Respect. 
MATT: Because I would have no idea. 
AIMEE: 15. 
AABRIA: Inspiration for not taking part. 15? 
LIAM: 19. 
AIMEE: Oh, go with him. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 13. 
ROBBIE: I feel the same way. I feel pretty cloistered. I don't think I know. 
AABRIA: Oh, okay. For my 15 and 19, that name rings a bell. When you learn about ancient civilizations across the long span of Tal'Dorei's history, there was a civilization that was old when the Calamity hit that was a lost forever ago called Niirdal-Poc. 
ASHLEY: Say it again. 
AABRIA: Niirdal-Poc. 
ASHLEY: Niirdal-Poc-- 
LIAM: Niirdal. 
AIMEE: So for all our knowledge, it no longer exists, so it's surprising to see that-- 
AABRIA: You would expect to see ruins. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
AABRIA: Easy analog is ancient Egypt. If you rocked up on the Pyramid of Giza and homies were just like, "Oh, what's up?" 
LIAM: And on that note, is this abandoned or do we see anything? Movement, life? 
MATT: Is there an entrance way? 
AABRIA: Give me perception check. 
AIMEE: Damn, we're curious. 
AABRIA: There's a low fog. I would hope so! I've been building to this shit for a second! If you were like, "Anyway!" 
AIMEE: We want to know! 
AABRIA: "All right, let's go to the river!" 
AIMEE: Let's go to the waterfall! 
AABRIA: Yeah. I think it's beautiful! 
LIAM: It's 14. 
MATT: I am looking at the waterfall with a zero. 
AABRIA: Oh my god. 
AIMEE: What! (laughter) 
ROBBIE: It's so pretty, though! 
MATT: It's like: I asked if you're thirsty! I'm just filling up my wine skin. (laughter) Like: Oh, where'd that wall come from! (laughter) 
AIMEE: I half-expected you to just dive off the cliff. 
MATT: Yeah. I'm just skinny-dipping right now. 
AABRIA: Explodes out of the clothing. 
ASHLEY: Dirty 20. 
AABRIA: Okay! 
ROBBIE: 12. 
AABRIA: All right. Just Fearne, as you look down, you see that it's not just water sort of pouring off of these little waterfalls that are ringing the basin, but a low-lying fog that you've been easily ignoring as you've been walking seeps off the edges and pools into this basin, too. But you look deeper into it and you see, yeah, there's movement in the fog around edges of these walls. And you see, faintly, that there are people slipping in and out of these nigh imperceptible gates that blend into the curved gray-green architecture. 
ASHLEY: There seems to be people going in and out of the fog. 
ANJALI: Indeed there are. 
AIMEE: (gasps) 
LIAM: You've been here before? 
ANJALI: I have. 
ROBBIE: What is this place? It seems so old, but-- 
LIAM: Why is this-- why? 
ANJALI: Why not? 
LIAM: I haven't heard much about this place, but I haven't heard that it's still... going. 
ANJALI: It is not available to the vision of everyone. Come. We all go there and you will learn more, hmm? 
LIAM: Lead the way. 
ANJALI: Just checking, is it just a 12-foot drop? Do I know of any easy way down other than that? Or is it just the 12-foot drop? 
AABRIA: It's just a 12-foot drop. 
ANJALI: Okay, great. So I'm just going to turn around and free climb down. 
AABRIA: Cool. 
ANJALI: And then I look up and I think about the folks behind me and I take my rope and I toss it up to one of them and I say: Secure this! And then I jump down. 
AABRIA: I'm not going to make you roll for it. You absolutely do that. It's 12 feet. 
ANJALI: I can do that in these heels. 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
AIMEE: You can! 
MATT: That is the definition of dope monk shit. 
ASHLEY: You absolutely can. 
AABRIA: 100%. 
ASHLEY: I kind of want to jump in. 
MATT: I'm already in. I'm skinny-dipping. 
ASHLEY: Oh, great! Jump in. 
MATT: I wasn't joking! I rolled a zero! I don't give a shit about this town right now! 
AABRIA: Did you just go? 
MATT: I just went like: Wah! 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
ROBBIE: Just a butt-naked dwarf diving off into-- Perfect. 
MATT: You can tell the deftness in which he disrobes mid-leap that he's done this before. 
AABRIA: Amazing. You got to give me an acrobatics or athletics check to see how we do on that. 
MATT: I respect that. I will take the 14 on acrobatics. 
AABRIA: Okay! 
ANJALI: Okay! Good job, boo boo! 
AABRIA: Mr. Mercer, can you paint me a word picture of what this looks like as everyone just sees you boop off the edge? 
MATT: So while they're having this intense conversation about the unveiling of this rich history of this ancient city that still exists and the wonderment and the questions and the pride and the curiosity, in the background, you just see this streak of flesh as in an instant, Dariax just goes: Last one in is a rotten bird something! And then just runs and leaps off the edge, 12 feet down into the water, not really caring how deep it might be, but goes into a full cannonball. 
LIAM: Is it a naked cannonball? 
MATT: Yeah. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: I'll say mostly naked. By the time he gets off the cliff, he still has one leg in the pants, but he'll deal with it later. 
AABRIA: Respect. Yeah, you dive in and the water is warm at the top and quickly-- this is incredibly deep, and the temperature drops as you go four, five, 12 feet under the water. And you can come up and yeah, you're part of this slow-moving river that just sort of circumnavigates. 
ROBBIE: Does the river go into the city? 
AABRIA: You see points at which it does go in, but you've got a lazy river situation. It's going around. 
ROBBIE: He's lazy rivering his way into the city? 
AABRIA: Possibly. Depends on if he keeps going. 
MATT: I'm fighting the current because I still want to get my clothes. I'm just enjoying the drop and it's like: Hey! Dorian, can you throw my stuff down? I didn't think this through! 
ROBBIE: Has naked Fearne jumped in as well? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I gave you my clothes. 
ROBBIE: Oh, I'm mothering everyone's clothes together. I've got it, all right, cool. 
ANJALI: Your cloak works so well for the glitter shitter! 
AABRIA: Mister takes a little poop and puts it in your hand. We're handing you stuff. 
AIMEE: Oh my god! 
ROBBIE: I'll bundle it all in my cape. 
AABRIA: Synchronized-- (yelps) 
ANJALI: Don't forget the rope! 
ROBBIE: I'll one-hand slide it down the thing with all of their sopping clothes and set it gently by the shore until they're done. 
AIMEE: I definitely think Opal would also jump in, but she'd take off her jacket and fashion it into some sort of hair protector. 
AABRIA: Respect. 
AIMEE: Because she does not want to get it wet. But it's a 12-foot drop, so she probably gets it wet. But she's trying. 
AABRIA: Well, let me get a dive in roll from you. Either athletics or acrobatics. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
AIMEE: Oh, natural 20! 
AABRIA: Oh, snap! 
ASHLEY: Oh! 
AIMEE: Maybe her hair doesn't get wet! 
AABRIA: Your turban game is so strong you hair does not get wet! 
AIMEE: No! 
AABRIA: Absolutely not. This is power-gaming for me. You didn't want your hair to get wet and it didn't! Yeah! 
AIMEE: Not even the back! Not even the baby hair! 
AIMEE: And the baby hairs stay down in all defiance of logic! Oh god, I love this game! 
ANJALI: I want this game to be reality. 
AABRIA: I love the power of imagination. 
ASHLEY and AIMEE: Me too! 
ANJALI: So much! 
ASHLEY: I got an 18. 
AABRIA: Yeah! Okay, so what does it look like? Paint me word pictures, both of you. 
ASHLEY: Okay. I think Fearne just takes just a big old Mirthful Leap and just jumps right in and just flopping around. Nothing fancy, and just floating on her back and just fully just out there for the world. Just having a blast. 
AABRIA: Mister's like a little iceberg of just the top of his head out of the water and he's blowing up bubbles. And if you're near him, it's a warm spot and you're not super sure if it's because he's a fire elemental or just actively peeing. 
AIMEE: Oh god! The worst! 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
AIMEE: Opal takes her sateen jacket off and she makes it look like a very nice protected hair covering. And then she does a thing that a lot of girls do when they're like, "No, don't push me in! No, don't push me in!" 
LIAM: Don't make me sing. 
AIMEE: Don't make me sing! 
ASHLEY: Don't make me dance! 
AIMEE: Don't make me dance. But is kind of sad no one pushed her in. (laughter) Don't push me in! Looks around, no one's there to push her in. So then she just goes, okay-- 
AABRIA: Hold on! There's a chance! Orym? 
LIAM: Are you already down? 
AIMEE: No, not yet. She's like: Don't do it! 
LIAM: No, Orym is actually casually watching Dorian carry all the stuff including the boxed up crown down, down, down, down, down just to make sure that everything's copacetic. 
AIMEE: And she's watching him do that. And she's like: Okay. And so with no one there to push her in she just falls that way. 
MATT: Little Mermaids it. (laughter) 
LIAM: And then once they're all down Orym will flash a smile at Dorian and give him a totally friendly thumbs up and then he disappears from view and you hear (running footsteps) And because of the boots, he hits the edge and leaps 30 feet straight out from the edge of the cliff into the center of whatever this water is. 
AIMEE: Nice! 
LIAM: Hopefully does not slap the water. He does not. 17. 
AABRIA: Oh beautiful, yeah! 
AIMEE: Yay! 
MATT: Well done, Orym! 
AIMEE: Nancy! Nice to see you having a little fun! 
LIAM: I got to be me! 
AABRIA: Okay, so you two, I'm assuming, are walking on the ground beside the sort of lazy river, yes? Okay. 
MATT: Sure you guys don't want to come in? It's very nice! 
ANJALI: I'm enjoying watching you. They are like children. 
ASHLEY: It's pretty warm! 
AIMEE: Oh, because of Mister. 
ANJALI: Dorian, let me take something. 
ASHLEY: Sometimes it is. 
ROBBIE: Sure. And I'll give her half of the clothes. 
ANJALI: And my rope. 
ROBBIE: Yes. And definitely not the crown. I'll hold on to that. 
ANJALI: Which I clock. 
ROBBIE: Sure. 
ANJALI: Definitely clock. 
AABRIA: Yep. 
ANJALI: Put these under my arm. The test that you all were given, you passed with flying colors, no? This is why you are here. The jungle wants you to see things. It is time for you to see them. 
AIMEE: Yes! 
ASHLEY: (blowing bubbles) (laughter) 
AABRIA: And as you're walking beside them, walking through the lazy river, you remember that this place is a citadel. It is a fortress and there are these massive vertical slits throughout the big sort of curved architecture. And you know that there are guards here, if you want to do anything about that. If not, they can for sure just keep floating down the river and I won't do anything bad or scary to them about it. 
ANJALI: I am actually going to move ahead a little bit to where those slits are. 
AABRIA: Mm-hmm. 
ANJALI: And gesture to the guards and give them a sign that we know, that I and the guards know, as a sign of recognition that I am bringing friends. 
AABRIA: Okay. So you walk up and just getting into view, perception check. 
ANJALI: 16. 
AABRIA: With a 16, you walk up and you hear a little (thwip) and a little cloud of dust gets kicked up three feet in front of your left foot and you see a small, black, perfect circle of basalt on the ground. And you're able to follow the trajectory up and you see a sling-holding soldier in the window and that's who you need to signal, so. 
ANJALI: Excellent. I will reach up. I will pass my signal to him. It is I, Fy'ra Rai. 
AABRIA: Give me a-- Because we got to see, there's always a chance that this one doesn't know you. Give me a persuasion check. 
ANJALI: Oh, phew, okay. 16. 
AABRIA: With a 16, you see a single flame emit and burns in the window in this gray, gold-- It's a very de-saturated light. You recognize it, as you've been inside the city walls for quite some time and you know that it's a hold. 
ANJALI: All right. My friends, tread your water. Hold back for a moment. 
MATT: Aight. 
AABRIA: (laughs) Shout out to everyone doing it. 
ANJALI: Yes. 
AIMEE: I love how everyone actually does it, I'm just like, "This works." (laughter) 
AABRIA: It's roughly the same. 
ASHLEY: I swim with my wrists. 
ANJALI: I do clock this moment of grace, they're all so graceful for the first time since I've met them and in perfect synchronization. I'm very impressed. 
LIAM: Doing ballet. 
AIMEE: There you go. 
ANJALI: Very proud of you. 
ROBBIE: Only 'cause their asses are out. (laughter) 
AABRIA: Butt-ass naked in the water. 
ANJALI: I look up and I say: Soldier, what more do you need? 
AABRIA: You don't hear a response. The easy assumption is that they're going to double-check, because they don't necessarily recognize you. 
ANJALI: I'm not a patient woman. 
AABRIA: And after about five minutes, the light goes out and you see that down, if you follow it straight down to the bottom where the ground meets this massive gray-green wall, part of the wall slides away and the gate is open to you. 
ANJALI: Excellent. Come, my friends. It is time to come on land. 
MATT: All right! 
AABRIA: Those of you in the water, you actually see, as you float up and get closer, that there are little channels cut into this lazy river around that go into gratings, that push the water into the city, but you can't float directly in there. Or you could if you really want to, but it's going to be hard. 
ASHLEY: I walk out and do one of those dog shakes, where I start with my head, and then wiggle the tail. Give it a little. 
AIMEE: So cute. 
ROBBIE: I've already got everybody's stuff laid out for them on the bank. 
AABRIA: Oh, you're so nice. 
ASHLEY: Thanks, dad. 
AIMEE: That's cute. 
MATT: Thanks, buddy. 
AABRIA: Dad vibes. 
MATT: All right, check, check, all here. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ANJALI: Now, my friends, this is a friendly city, but it is a place you must respect. Hmm? No-- how do you say-- snarkiness? Careful. Gentle. Treat them as you would a respected elder and all will be well. Hmm? 
AIMEE: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Got it. 
AABRIA: As you pass through the gate, you go inside and you walk through what feels like 40 feet of tunneling, before you're able to break into the city proper. And you are inside the ancient stronghold of Niirdal-Poc and the fog is inside this place too, but it's sort of-- It's lighter and wispier and permeates everything and there're lanterns all over and they all glow with the same greenish-goldish-grayish light that doesn't quite burn. Doesn't make sense. And you pass through on this very well cobbled, well-maintained city path and you pass these massive buildings of that same gray-green. It's not cobblestone. It's covered over with a concrete in this strange color that your eye slips by naturally. And all these buildings are multistory with little carved terraces and you see tiny gardens and people tending them and the people inside it, you see lots of humans and half-elves, yes, but also gnomes and halflings and even more interesting races. You see hobgoblins, and goblins, and people with the faces of cats and elephants and birds. This place is wild and different, and everyone walks through the mists silently, but very serenely. And they give you a little look and a little nod as to acknowledge, yes, you are new and we know everyone here, but the city is massive. 15,000 people moving about their daily life. Yeah? 
ROBBIE: Can I ask a question? 
AABRIA: Absolutely. 
ROBBIE: This might be a perception question. 
AABRIA: No, you're good. 
ROBBIE: Does the city feel distinctly ancient or does it have-- The architecture of the city, could it exist in the world at large now? Is it modern or is it ancient, I suppose? 
AABRIA: It is ancient. However, the architecture is extraordinarily different. Most of Tal'Dorei is very medieval, Western European-coded, and this has a lot of curves to it and arches. And it's that strangeness of the lack of cobblestone and visible stone-age, that everything is covered over and smoothed over with this gray-green concrete. So there is something distinctly old about it, because you see there's something in its simplicity that feels ancient, but it's very distinct and unique from Tal'Dorei or at large, farther north. 
AIMEE: And would the average person living in Tal'Dorei see goblins on a daily basis, or? 
AABRIA: Absolutely not. 
AIMEE: Not, okay. 
AABRIA: They are rare. 
AIMEE: So it'd be like a-- And also, are they dressed anciently? I don't know if that makes sense. 
AABRIA: No, you're good. 
AIMEE: Is it like stepping into a storybook? Something that you'd read in a history book? 
AABRIA: It does feel like stepping into a history book-vibe. The clothing is way more simply cut. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
AABRIA: And a little rougher-- 
AIMEE: Gotcha. 
AABRIA: -- to it, but very sleek, very timeless in that this is a place that was sort of robbed of the natural flow of time. 
AIMEE: Oh my god, did you see the cat face? 
ROBBIE: That's not polite. 
AIMEE: Oh, sorry. 
ASHLEY: Wait, are you from here? 
ANJALI: No, I am not from here, but strangely, now I feel that I'm of here. Does that make sense? 
ASHLEY: I think so. 
ANJALI: I will tell you a story when I take you to someone special. 
ROBBIE: Hmm? 
AIMEE: Who? 
ANJALI: You will see. Now she's giddy like a schoolgirl, no one has ever seen her like this. I am just excited to take these guys where we're going. 
ROBBIE: Orym, have you ever heard of anything like this before? 
LIAM: Barely. I've heard the name muttered around me a few times, but as a place from the past. This doesn't make any sense to me. 
ROBBIE: Something like this shouldn't exist. 
LIAM: It's a big world. 
ANJALI: Can I hear them? 
AABRIA: Perception check. 
ANJALI: No, I cannot hear them. 
AABRIA: (laughs) 
ANJALI: Or maybe I can. It's a 13. 
AABRIA: I'm going to say no, I'm going to let them have this little quiet moment. And y-- Oh, go ahead. 
AIMEE: Anyone hungry? 
ROBBIE: Yes. 
ASHLEY and MATT: Yeah. 
LIAM: What do you got? 
AIMEE: Oh, no, I just meant maybe you could take us somewhere fun? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, maybe we should eat somewhere. What-- 
AIMEE: That isn't pie? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, what's the food of--? 
ANJALI: I have a quick stop. 
ASHLEY: Okay. So I'm going to navigate quickly, again, excited through the streets, and as we're going by, we're seeing houses and we're seeing these homes with these lovely enclosed areas. We come to a smaller one than the rest. Seems a little bit less ornate, less impressive. And I gently rap on the door. (knocking) (whispering) Be home, be home, be home, be home. 
AABRIA: And you hear a voice call out, but not in Common. Just (speaking foreign language). 
ANJALI: Fy'ra Rai (speaking foreign language) 
AABRIA: And you hear (clattering) as the door immediately slams open and you're face to face with a tall, older earth genasi. 
ANJALI: Hello, my friend. 
AABRIA: "Hello, how are you? Fy'ra-- oh! Others? My goodness. How do you say-- My name is Elam. Are these your friends?" 
ANJALI: They are. More than friends. We are close and this is their first time to Niirdal-Poc 
AABRIA: "Well, we don't get very many new people. Please, come-- Do--? Okay, come in, come in, please come in." 
MATT: All right. 
LIAM: That's very kind of you. 
AIMEE: I whisper to Fearne: Have you ever seen her this excited? 
ASHLEY: No! 
AIMEE: It's kind of nice. 
ASHLEY: I know, it is nice. I didn't know she had it in her. 
AIMEE: Neither did I. 
ASHLEY: It's great. 
AABRIA: And as you turn, this woman sweeps by and you smell the scent of her, sort of on her clothes and on her hair is very wet, very fertile soil. It's that smell. As she turns in and you're in the center of her house, it is... too decorated, is what I would say. Just very plush rugs that go all the way to the edges of this fairly small living room. There's art all over the walls. Lots of little carved statues of purple porphyry all over little tables with lamps and blankets everywhere. And really overfilled plush pillows of vibrant, but sort of-- Vibrancy here is a little strange, so it's all a little muted, but your eyes are quickly adjusting to what passes for color here and these beautiful dark burgundies and purples and blues everywhere. And you can weave through this very crushed living room as she leads you up the stairs and out to a little patio. 
ANJALI: You always were the finest hostess. 
AABRIA: (laughs) "Thank you. I'm so happy to see you. I'm so glad that you're safe. You were out there, you know, it's a whole--" 
ANJALI: It's surprisingly friendly, except for a few encounters. My friends and I have traveled very far. 
AABRIA: "Yes." 
ANJALI: Might we avail ourselves of... perhaps one of your fine meals? 
AABRIA: "Do you have-- Yes, you all have time! You will stay here. Stay here. Hold on, hold on. You didn't--? I have to show--? Hold on." And she disappears out through the door and leaves you on this little patio where you're overlooking this little terraced garden with little sprouts. Looking out, you can see other tall buildings. And just about every one of these homes has a little terraced garden that has different kinds of farms, some of them are flowers, some of them are very clearly food, some of them are big, strange-looking mushrooms and fungi and ornamental things. And everyone's decided what to do with their own space. But this is very much a micro greens, little garden situation. And then the door opens just a crack behind you and a big, extremely furry, curly, dark-furrred dog wanders out. 
ALL: (gasping) 
ANJALI: (laughs) It is good to see you, my friend, as well! 
AABRIA: He hops up. He is at your full height when he stands up on his hind legs and gives you some really sloppy-- Not-- It's a musty breath. Licks and is just attacking you with licks and chewing on the edges of your hair. 
ANJALI: Don't get burned, my friend, don't get burned, remember that happened last time! 
AABRIA: (panting) 
ASHLEY: I can't help it, I just go over and just get on the ground with him and just give him all the scritches and loves. Hello, hello! 
MATT: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
AABRIA: He's got a little collar around his neck. But the tag on it is in that runic language. It's not in Common. 
ASHLEY: What is this animal's name? 
ANJALI: This is Googal. 
ASHLEY: Google? 
ANJALI: Go-o-gal. Googal. 
ASHLEY: Googal. 
AIMEE: Googal. 
ANJALI: Googal. 
ROBBIE: Googal. 
AABRIA: And as you say his name every time, he's just-- 
ANJALI: Ah, goo, goo, goo, goo. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ANJALI: A little goo-goo. 
AABRIA: (growling) 
ANJALI: (laughs) Goo goo. (laughs) 
AABRIA: He's drooling onto the ground over his head as he's just, tummy time for all of you and you hear that woman. "Just pet him for a little bit. I am whipping something together. You have to warn people before you show up!" 
ANJALI: You know I would not ask if it was just for me. 
AABRIA: "Okay-- Yes, you would. That's a lie." 
ANJALI: (laughs) 
AABRIA: "You are a liar. Have you seen the Tetrarchs yet?" 
ANJALI: We have not, but my friends needed some sustenance before another surprise. 
AABRIA: You hear footsteps sprint up the stairs again and she peeks back through the door. "Wait, you came here before the Tetrarchs?" 
ANJALI: I did. 
AABRIA: (laughs) "You like me more. I will make you something special. I will actually use-- I'll use fire. I was going to do like a salad, but now I'm going to cook something. Okay, okay." 
AIMEE: Nice. 
ANJALI: Genar is the best cook in all of Niirdal-Poc. 
AIMEE: Wow. 
ANJALI: And believe me, I have tried many, many people's cooking here. 
LIAM: I'm so ready. 
AABRIA: (laughs) 
MATT: Too excited. I'm out of crumbs since he's been reaching into his pouch with leftover pie edges that he's just barely scraping out, super stale. 
ANJALI: My friend, whatever you do, don't let her know you've been eating that. She would be offended on your own behalf. 
AIMEE: (laughs) 
MATT: Throws the bag across the room like it's on fire. My apologies. 
AABRIA: Googal is going to get up and just start getting in there. 
AIMEE: Googal. 
AABRIA: Yep. 
MATT: Eh, it's fine. Oh, wait, no! Wait, no, you got it. Who has the crown now? 
AABRIA: Oh yeah. 
ROBBIE: I-- 
AABRIA: Who does have the crown? 
ROBBIE: I put it back with your things, yeah. 
MATT: (shouts) As I grab the bag. Because the last thing we need is a dog of that size-- 
ANJALI: Oh my god. 
AABRIA: Hold on. We're going to make that a check. Oh, I rolled good. Go ahead and make a-- call it a dexterity check for me. 
MATT: All righty. 
AABRIA: He got in there real quick. 
MATT: I'm going to use my inspiration. 
AABRIA: Maybe a good call. You got to beat an 18. 
MATT: Is it with advantage with inspiration or is it reroll? The second roll? I'm trying to remember. 
AABRIA: You can pick the better roll. 
MATT: Okay, I won't take the natural one. 
AABRIA: Oh god. 
ASHLEY: Oh, wow. 
AIMEE: Oh gosh. 
AABRIA: Sir, do you need some other dice? 
AIMEE: I've been saying that for a week. 
MATT: No, it's my Gilmore dice! I'm going to use it forever. (laughter) 
MATT: I refuse. 10. 
AABRIA: I'll trade you, because I am Gilmore now. 
MATT: It is true. 10. 10. 
AABRIA: Yeah. You go in and dive behind Googal, but you can tell he's already worrying on something wrapped up in brown leather and cloth and he's chewing on it and he's pulling at it. 
MATT: Googal! Goo, goo, buddy. (laughs) Hey, I need that crown. 
AABRIA: He's got it under the fabric, in his mouth. 
ANJALI: Googal, (speaking foreign language)! 
AABRIA: And you see him immediately slink down like, "Oh, we doing this? Fine, we're playing." 
ANJALI: Googal, leave it. 
AIMEE: Oh no. 
AABRIA: (growling) He's got it. He's going to sprint. What do you guys want to do about this? 
AIMEE: Can I cast Druidcraft and maybe fashion some sort of food or something that he might want? I don't know. 
AABRIA: Is that how Druidcraft works? 
AIMEE: I don't know! 
AABRIA: I know you're reading that spell. 
AIMEE: It says a harmless-- Oh, I could do a harmless sensory effect. So how about-- 
ANJALI: Taste is a sense. 
AIMEE: Taste is a scent. How about I just grab one of the micro greens, but make it smell and taste like something he would want to eat? 
AABRIA: What do you think he would want to eat? 
AIMEE: He's a dog! I don't know. Another animal? 
AABRIA: I'm saying, you can't tell me to tell you what the best thing is. 
AIMEE: Oh, okay. 
AABRIA: You have to make a choice with your cantrip, baby girl. 
AIMEE: So I grab one of the micro greens from the garden-- 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
AIMEE: -- and I somehow I use this cantrip and I make it smell like the most delicious liverwurst jerky that a dog would like, or one of those bully sticks, just disgusting. Smells so gross. 
AABRIA: Yeah. Just a funky-ass-- okay. 
LIAM: Do you know what those are made of? 
AIMEE: Be like: Googal-- 
ANJALI: You don't want to know. 
AIMEE: I think it's cow penis. 
ANJALI: Yes, it is. 
AABRIA: What?! 
LIAM: Correct, correct. 
ANJALI: Bully stick scent. 
LIAM: Bully stick is-- 
AIMEE: They're so disgusting. 
LIAM: -- is cow penis. 
AIMEE: So a cow penis treat and I-- 
MATT: Like Ma used to make. (laughter) 
AABRIA: All right, make an animal handling check for me. 
AIMEE: Okay, oh shit. 
AABRIA: As you're holding up, you see him do something like, "Huh?" as he's looking at a little plant which he's already learned is not food for him, but it smells like liver-y bull dick. (laughter) 
AIMEE: So that'll be a 14. 
AABRIA: Okay. I'll roll against that. Ooh. And he's still got it in his mouth and he gets a little closer to you and sniffs it, but then he looks at all of you and sees the intensity on your eyes with what he has, and he crouches even lower and goes (growling) and backs away from you. 
AIMEE: Ugh, shit. 
MATT: We're about to create the big bad, aren't we? 
ROBBIE: I'm going to sprint over to him and I'm going to grab him by the collar and I'm going to see if I can forcibly just pull it out of his mouth. 
AABRIA: Okay. Let's call that a-- Are you trying to-- 
ROBBIE: He's got a collar on, right? 
AABRIA: He does have a collar on, yes. 
ROBBIE: I'm going to grab him by the collar with one hand and with my left hand I'm going to put my hand over his muzzle. And this is a dog handling technique that is not the nicest. And I'm going to take his upper jaw and pinch it into the top of his teeth to try to get him to release it. 
AABRIA: Yeah, okay. You can either call that animal handling and I'll give you advantage-- Yeah, let's go-- 
ROBBIE: He's big, though, right? 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Strength? I don't know, animal handling? All right. 
AABRIA: Let's call it animal handling with advantage. Because if it becomes a strength thing, he's going to start-- 
ROBBIE: That is a one. 
AIMEE: No. 
AABRIA: Okay. That's why advantage is important! 
ROBBIE: Oh, 19 with animal handling, that's 20. 
AABRIA: Oh yeah. I'll roll against it. Yeah. And you're able-- you hear him just sort of-- he doesn't quite whimper, you're not hurting him. He just doesn't-- You're not playing right. 
ROBBIE: Mm-hmm. 
AABRIA: So that is the sound he's making. (yelping) As you get his mouth open and you're actually able to reach it-- Well, you've got his mouth open and you're holding onto his collar. 
AIMEE: I can reach in. 
AABRIA: Are you going to let go of one of those two things in order to get the thing out? 
AIMEE: No, I'll reach in. 
ROBBIE: No, he would release it or it would go lax enough for someone to grab it, one of the other. 
AABRIA: Well, it's kind of a hoop. So you've got a hoop thing, it's sort of sitting gently in his mouth. I just want someone else to have to get in there to-- 
AIMEE: I'll grab it. 
AABRIA: I have more opportunities to make this go bad. 
AIMEE: I'll grab it, but I'll use two fingers and the cloth. So I'd try not to touch the actual crown. 
AABRIA: (laughs) Okay. Yeah. I'm not going to make you roll for it. You reach in and you grab it and you get it out of his mouth and he's just sort of tongue lolling like-- (open mouth sounds) 
MATT: I'll go ahead and grab it. 
AIMEE: Get the bag! Get the bag. 
MATT: I got the bag, I got the bag. 
ANJALI: Give him the bully stick. 
AIMEE: Oh! 
ROBBIE: Here you go. 
AABRIA: And he goes and bites it and it's just smell. 
AIMEE: Oh no. Now he hates me. 
ANJALI: Oh, damn it, I thought it was a-- Forgot that. 
LIAM: Just a fart smell. 
ROBBIE: If I've still got his collar, I'm going to just try to gently pet him to get him to hopefully appease me. And did I hear you right when you said that his collar had a rune on as a tag? 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: All right. So I clocked that. I'm going to flip his collar around and look at the rune on his tag and show the group. Saying: Did you see this? 
AIMEE: Hmm? 
ROBBIE: This isn't some obscure marking. If they're using this as a tag, that's his name. They know how to read these symbols. 
LIAM: That's right. 
MATT: Well, that's great! Then we just ask your friend after they're done making food, if they know what that rune on the big ash hole was. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: That is surprisingly smart, Dariax. 
AIMEE: Well, your rubbing. 
ASHLEY: Very true. Very true. 
ROBBIE: Good boy. I let him go. 
AABRIA: He is looking at you like you are a betrayer god. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: Sorry, pup. 
AABRIA: He just walks off to the side, curls up, sniffs at the thing that smells amazing. Licks it again. You just hear (whimpering). 
AIMEE: Sorry, buddy. 
AABRIA: And just sort of flumps down in the corner. 
ASHLEY: Come here, come here. Come here. You get over here right now. 
AABRIA: He does the little, couple of steps to crawl. Kind of just does the dog crawl over to you. 
ASHLEY: I get on all fours and I just start wiggling. Come here. 
AABRIA: Do an animal handling check for me. 
ANJALI: That's so cute, I can't-- 
ROBBIE: This is why you never played D&D with children and animals. (laughter) 
LIAM: Are they both doing that cat gif? 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
AABRIA: How'd you roll? Does he do it back? 
ASHLEY: 19. 
AABRIA: Yeah, he does it back immediately, he comes over and you see him drop his funk as he gives both of you a dirty look and yeah, he's playing with you. 
ASHLEY: It's okay. It needed to be done, it needed to be done. 
MATT: Fy'ra Rai, so this is your second home or a place you call a pseudo home? I don't know where I am, so I'm just wondering if how, how, how, how? 
ANJALI: Perhaps I will fill you in a little bit more before we reach the Tetrarchs. 
MATT: Sure. 
LIAM: Before we reach, what was that? 
AIMEE: Titty tracks. 
AABRIA: Hey. (laughs) Hatred. Flames. 
ANJALI: The Tetrarchs. 
ROBBIE: With such confidence. 
AIMEE: The titty tracks. 
LIAM: The tracks. 
ANJALI: The Tetrarchs are the-- the rulers of this particular place. 
AIMEE: Whoa. 
ANJALI: These obviously are not ancient ruins, but the city was lost a long, long time ago. It was necessary for their own survival to conceal themselves from the outside eye. But occasionally they would open one eye to see if perhaps there were any worthy visitors. Worthy of seeing, worthy of visiting. Worthy of the other gifts they may bestow on them. Knowledge, friendship, kindness. 
LIAM: And they've remained hidden using the mists we're seeing? Or is it more than that? 
ANJALI: There are certain things I cannot explain to you. One can only feel. All I can say is that this place is known to the beings it wants to be known to. 
AIMEE: Hmm. 
LIAM: Okay. 
MATT: All right. Don't follow, but respect it. 
ANJALI: I came here when I-- when I heard of my sister's death. 
AIMEE: Oh. 
ANJALI: I lost my way. I lost my purpose and, somehow, I was guided here. Here is where I found myself. Thanks to them. I will tell you more when we meet another friend. 
AABRIA: Orym, with your passive perception, you hear whispers in a language that you don't understand coming from almost over your head, because remember this is a multi-story building. So there's a whole little outcropping on this patio. 
LIAM: Do they have a tone to them? 
AABRIA: It is soft and very high-pitched, someone quiet or someone young. 
LIAM: Okay, so young. Got it. Okay. No alarm or anything to it, right? 
AABRIA: Nope. 
LIAM: Okay. Well. 
ASHLEY: So this city was-- if it was lost, how was it found? Was it--? 
ANJALI: Do you remember your experience in the jungle? With the goddess? 
AIMEE: Mm-hmm. 
ANJALI: She allowed us to come here. She allowed me ages ago. Now she has allowed you. 
LIAM: So we didn't find it per se, we were let in. 
ANJALI: As I say, the place is known to those it wishes to be known to. 
LIAM: That's what I said. 
AIMEE: VIP. We're VIP. 
ANJALI: You proved yourselves to be worthy of heart, of purpose, of kindness. And perhaps they have other ideas for you, too. 
MATT: And sense of humor, probably. 
AABRIA: You all smell this frying, sizzling vegetables. And then you all hear a shout as that smell turns a little acrid. 
ANJALI: Oh no. 
AABRIA: She's started burning food a little bit. 
AIMEE: Oh no! 
AABRIA: Rolled low. You can hear it and then you start to smell it, like uh-oh. 
ANJALI: So, I'm going to get up and: Excuse me for a moment. Please, rest. And I'm going to go check on her. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you come down and you see that she's got this massive fry surface going. And she is just-- there's some fry bread going and you can see little black spots going where she's like, "It got too hot too fucking fast. What? What are you doing? No, why are you here?" 
ANJALI: I'm here to see if you need help. 
AABRIA: "Don't look at me." 
ANJALI: Do you need help? 
AABRIA: "No, I'm nervous. I've never-- you're the last person from outside the walls that any-- this whole neighborhood has seen. And I don't-- What-- What if they don't like the food?" 
ANJALI: I don't think you have to worry about the food. They will love your hospitality. 
MATT: Man, that sounds and smells really good. 
AABRIA: "What is he saying?" 
ANJALI: He's saying it smells delicious. 
AABRIA: "Oh, they don't know better then, okay. I'm less worried now." And you see her pop a big bubble of dough. As it goes back down and continues to fry. (sounds of hunger) 
ANJALI: Genar. 
LIAM: Sourdough. 
ANJALI: There is something special about them indeed. And they do wish to bring them to the Tetrarchs. How have things been since I have left? 
AABRIA: You see a little wash of concern on her face and she quickly fights it down. "Well, there are rumors that bad omens were seen. They haven't said anything officially out loud, but Ruidus is out and a dark moon is a dark omen." 
ANJALI: No specifics, nothing more? 
AABRIA: Nothing official has been said. 
ANJALI: And you said what is-- a notice is out? 
AABRIA: "Ruidus." 
ANJALI: Ruidus. 
AABRIA: Which you'll know is the second moon, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ANJALI: Ruidus. 
AABRIA: Ruidus, I'll say it right. It's fine. 
ANJALI: I have an accent. Have you not noticed? 
AABRIA: No, I do, too. 
ANJALI: Have you not noticed this completely unplaceable accent is mine? 
AABRIA: I am matching it for reasons unknown. 
ANJALI: I am from another world that no one knows! 
AABRIA: Okay, this is fine. 
ANJALI: (laughs) You got this. But everyone here has been safe. No rumblings among the Tetrarchy? 
AABRIA: "That is not quite true. One of the Tetrarchs has gone south over the Beynsfal." 
ANJALI: Over the? 
AABRIA: "The Beynsfal Plateau is to the south. To see if maybe the Iron Authority is a thing to be concerned about. But once again, I don't know anything. So you'll have to talk to the Tetrarchs." 
ANJALI: Of course. 
AABRIA: "And if you're down here, I'm going to make you work." And she puts a massive spoon in your hand. 
ANJALI: Excellent. 
AABRIA: "Those vegetables, do not let them burn like I have let this fucking bread burn." 
ANJALI: Excellent, and I'll just heave into it. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ANJALI: I love this work. 
AABRIA: And she's got those Teflon hands where she's just reaching onto the griddle and pulling bread off. 
ANJALI: Reminds me of home. 
AABRIA: Yeah. (laughs) And she tears it up and she's like, "Okay, I'm going to give them the bread. And then I'll make a better bread. Don't tell them." And yeah, she's going to appear up the stairs and leave you down to do a little more work while she comes back up with this massive, shallow basket piled high with torn fried bread. "Hello. Oh, is he being a good boy?" 
ASHLEY: Very. 
AIMEE: The best boy. 
MATT: Almost the worst boy. 
AIMEE: No, no, no, no. 
MATT: But kept him the best boy. 
AABRIA: "Okay, I don't know what that means." 
MATT: I don't either. Thank you. 
AABRIA: "Yeah, please. Oh, okay. Go ahead, go ahead." 
LIAM: Thank you very much. It's appreciated. 
AABRIA: "So you traveled from what part of--?" 
LIAM: Oh boy, all over. 
ASHLEY: All over, yeah. 
LIAM: Pretty far north. 
AABRIA: "In Gwessar?" 
LIAM: Emon. 
AABRIA: "Emon, Emon, I don't know." 
AIMEE: Are you immortal? Are you, like, a hundred years old? You don't look it, I just was wondering. Do people age here? 
AIMEE: Is that rude? 
AABRIA: "Are you simple? No, I am not immortal." 
AIMEE: Oh, oh, oh. 
ROBBIE: I think our friend thinks that because the city is ancient and hidden, perhaps its inhabitants are also ancient, hidden, and immortal. Is that what you're saying? 
AIMEE: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
AABRIA: "Although, elves get very old. But I think that is true everywhere?" 
LIAM: Yes, it is. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: You're a earth genasi, correct? 
AABRIA: "I am. You're an air genasi, yes?" 
ROBBIE: Yes, I beg your pardon. I've actually never met one before. Not one, that sounds wrong. You know what I mean? (laughter) 
AABRIA: "I know what you mean. Fy'ra Rai had much the same reaction when she was first here, but there's actually a sizeable genasi population here." 
ROBBIE: Really? 
AABRIA: "Yes." 
ROBBIE: Air genasi as well? 
AABRIA: "Yes. Oh, sweet boy, how long have you been without your people?" 
ROBBIE: A while. A year. But it's nice to see you all living here together, everyone. It's beautiful, really. 
AABRIA: "We are a little removed from time, and long before the Calamity, our people-- the planes touched. We roamed everywhere across Exandria." 
ROBBIE: Some still do. Dariax, the paper? 
AIMEE: Yeah! 
MATT: Oh, right, right. Hold on just a second. His fingers are greasy and just leaving tracks on them. 
AABRIA: She looks horrified as you do that, by the way. "You are very dirty." 
MATT: He's got crumbled bits of the bread in his chin beard. All right, all right, here. 
AABRIA: "Is the world outside the wall so barbaric that you do not have a thing for your hands for cloth to--" 
AIMEE: That's just him. 
AABRIA: "Oh, okay." 
ROBBIE: Thank you. 
MATT: There you go. This is delicious, by the way. Thank you so much. 
AABRIA: "This is the bread. There's more food. That's-- okay." 
MATT: I love this place. Thank you so much for taking us here. 
ANJALI: You're welcome! Still stirring. 
AABRIA: "You can bring that up whenever you think it's ready, but don't make me look bad." 
LIAM: Never fill up on the bread. 
MATT: Why? 
LIAM: Keep going. 
AABRIA: "What is this paper?" 
ROBBIE: We have to ask you. Do you recognize this symbol? And I hand you the paper. 
AABRIA: So which one is this? Is this the writings from-- 
ROBBIE: This is the OG one rubbing from the ash hole. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: Okay. Yeah. She looks at it and says, "Yes. It says 'place of burning.' Sorry. It doesn't translate quite right." And she begins to speak this. Uh, does anyone here speak Celestial? 
MATT: Nope. 
LIAM: Nope. 
AIMEE: No. 
AABRIA: I didn't think so, but I wanted to double-check. 
MATT: Barely speak Common. 
AABRIA: Vibes. (laughs) 
AIMEE: Wait, so it just says "place of burning"? 
AABRIA: "No, I'm very sorry. That is a rough understanding. Okay, so you've never seen-- you don't see symbols like this, I assume, since you've brought this out for me. Our language, this writing is older than the language of the gods and it is very much-- the drawing of it is also half of the meaning." 
AIMEE: Okay. 
AABRIA: "So the visual is a place, a gate, and the word of it, the speaking of it is a burning flow and energy. So a place of burning? Where did you see this? In a book?" 
LIAM: In a place that was burning. 
AIMEE: Yeah. I mean it seems a little-- 
LIAM: It was a problem. It was a large chunk of the earth bulged into the sky where it hadn't before and the place was covered in ash and you could barely see or breathe. And we found that symbol at the heart of it all. 
AABRIA: "Was it carved by someone or did it erupt on its own?" 
MATT: I mean, from what we saw, it just kind of happened. 
AIMEE: Well, it was already there when we got there, like the symbol was there. 
MATT: Right. But the mountain wasn't. 
AIMEE: No, no. 
LIAM: That erupted from the earth. 
MATT: Craziest thing. 
AIMEE: Earthquake, mesa. 
MATT: Yeah. These gardens are beautiful, by the way. This whole place is great. I've been camping out the wrong spots in Tal'Dorei, let me tell you. 
ANJALI: I'll come up with the-- 
AABRIA: "Tal'Dorei. Tal'Dorei?" 
MATT: Tal'Dorei. 
AABRIA: "What's Tal'Dorei? What's a Tal'Dorei?" 
MATT: It's... Wow. That's a bigger question, now I think about it. What is a Tal'Dorei? 
AIMEE: It's the biggest city-- 
LIAM: From our corner of the world where we live and here are considered Tal'Dorei. 
AIMEE: Oh. I was confused. 
ANJALI: I'll come up with the vat of vegetables. 
AABRIA: Yeah. "So what do you mean? Is that north or south of Gwessar?" 
AIMEE: We're on Tal'Dorei. 
LIAM: It's the continent. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: "Hmm. Names change." 
AIMEE: This is what I mean. How old are you? 
AABRIA: "I am-- Okay. I don't like-- I am 45 and I'm very sensitive about it." 
LIAM: You look great. 
AIMEE: You look way younger. 
AABRIA: "Thank you." 
AIMEE: Just saying. 
AABRIA: "Thank you. You--" and she begins to start serving and she'll serve you first. And she just dumps this big melange of night-shade veggies, tomato-y, dark green potatoes and onions onto a big piece of the bread and just hands it to you. "You're nice. You're making me uncomfortable." 
AIMEE: No, you look great! 
AABRIA: "You're very pretty, though. Thank you, thank you, thank you." 
AIMEE: Drop the skincare routine. 
AABRIA: "I barely have skin. It's kind of like a rock. Don't worry about it." 
ROBBIE: Whatever it is. it don't crack. (laughter) 
AABRIA: "All right. You next." 
ROBBIE: Thank you. 
AABRIA: Extra high. "The names change over time. We live and die as I'm assuming everyone else does throughout the world. But in the time before, during the Calamity, when we dropped off of the face of... Tal'Dorei--" 
AIMEE: What was it called then? 
AABRIA: "Gwessar. That's not our word. There are elves to the north that called it that." 
AIMEE: Oh yeah. We met them, they're in purple. 
AABRIA: "Okay. Are they--" 
AIMEE: I mean, I gave one of them attitude. It was fine. 
AABRIA: "I don't-- There is some subtext I feel like I am missing in translation?" 
AIMEE: Tell us about-- Why did it just erupt and then have the signal? What is it supposed to be saying to the people that see the signal? "Place of burning"? What does that mean to you? Don't go in? 
MATT: Yeah, is it a warning? Is it more of a statement? Is it a symbol of power that could bring places of burning forward? 
AABRIA: "Fy'ra Rai, did you tell them that I am, like, a scholar or something?" 
ANJALI: I did not, but I will say I think this may be a question for Umejii. 
AABRIA: "Yeah. This is a little above my-- Terra-- What's the word for-- a terrace? This is more than--" 
MATT: The flavor of this meal says you're some kind of a wizard to me. 
AABRIA: "Oh, thank you." 
ANJALI: I brought you here, my friends, for sustenance. For knowledge, we will be moving somewhere else. 
AIMEE: Got it. 
ANJALI: They have a larger purpose, but they needed the greatest sustenance that could be offered to them to complete their task. 
AIMEE: So delish. 
AABRIA: "You all are very sweet." 
ROBBIE: But you were very helpful. Thank you for telling us about the symbol. 
AABRIA: "Yes. I'm sorry I could not be a little more helpful for you." 
LIAM: I think this is a pretty big shock to the system. It's good that we take it in gradually. 
MATT: Yeah. And your hospitality will be remembered. 
AABRIA: "Thank you. If you do not have other accommodations, I'm assuming you're here for a while? Given how long it probably took you to get here. You are most welcome in my house." 
LIAM: That is very kind of you. 
ASHLEY: That is very nice of you. 
AIMEE: Thank you. 
AABRIA: "Now what are any of your names?" (laughter) 
ANJALI: I am the worst host and you are the best host. 
AABRIA: "Oh, thank you. I'm not going to disagree with you." (laughter) 
ANJALI: Dariax. 
MATT: Hey, Dariax. 
ANJALI: This is young Opal. 
AIMEE: Hi! 
AABRIA: "Like the stone?" 
AIMEE: Yeah, like the stone. 
AABRIA: "That's a lovely necklace." 
AIMEE: Thank you. 
ANJALI: Dorian Storm. 
ROBBIE: Hello. 
AABRIA: "Dorian Storm?" 
ROBBIE: Yes. 
AABRIA: "Fy'ra Rai. Dorian Storm." 
ROBBIE: Very cool, isn't it? 
MATT: It's pretty cool. 
ROBBIE: Thank you. I'm a musician. So. It's more of a stage name, really, but yeah. 
AABRIA: "Oh, okay. That's fine. What is your real name? You cannot come into my house and eat my food without me knowing your name." 
AIMEE: Yeah, what is your real name? I want to know. 
ASHLEY: We've been calling you by a fake name this whole time? 
ROBBIE: For all intents and purposes. 
AABRIA: "Oh!" 
ROBBIE: It is-- 
AABRIA: She begins shoveling food in her face, having inadvertently caused a thing. 
ROBBIE: It's Dorian Storm. That's who I am. That is who I am. 
AIMEE: You said a stage name. 
ROBBIE: Yes, it's a stage name. 
AIMEE: What's the off-stage name? 
ROBBIE: The off-stage name? 
MATT: You have an off-stage name? 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: (laughs) I-- I left it behind when I left home and-- 
LIAM: We'll still call you Dorian. 
AIMEE: Yeah, we'll still call you Dorian. We'll tell you something embarrassing about everybody. 
ROBBIE: Really? 
AIMEE: Yeah! My real name's not Opal. 
ROBBIE: Deception check. Can I do that to myself to tell if she's lying to me or not? 
AABRIA: That's insight, yeah. 
ROBBIE: Insight, all right. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
AIMEE: Do I roll, too? 
AABRIA: Yep. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
LIAM: If you're lying, yeah. 
AIMEE: I'm not! 
LIAM: Then persuasion for you. 
ROBBIE: Insight is 19. 
AABRIA: Ooh! 
AIMEE: Persua-- 16. But this is-- I'm telling the truth. I'll tell you something embarrassing. 
ROBBIE: First name only. Oh, you're telling the truth. Oh yeah, okay. 
AABRIA: "Hold on. If we're doing uncomfortable truths, I will bring alcohol, yes?" 
AIMEE: Yes! 
AABRIA: "Is the word?" 
ROBBIE: Yes. 
ASHLEY: Oh, great. 
AABRIA: "Oh, applause!" 
ANJALI: Keep your wits about you because we still do need to go to the Tetrarchs." 
ROBBIE: Yes, yes, yes. 
AABRIA: "You are a buzzkill!" 
ANJALI: I always have been. 
MATT: These are really important people, right? Heads of the city or whatever? 
AIMEE: The titty racks. 
MATT: The titty racks. Before we see the titty racks, I'm going to need at least two shots. So yeah, I'm down. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
ROBBIE: All right. 
LIAM: The best of the dinosaurs. 
AABRIA: She comes back with this big, bulbous-- 
MATT: The arms are a little closer in. 
AABRIA: -- clay pot and pours out a very milky-- it basically tastes like sake. Don't know why that's in my head. 
ANJALI: I can't imagine why. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
AIMEE: Ooh, that's yummy. 
AABRIA: Pours some out for all of you. 
MATT: Dariax doesn't hand her his cup, he hands the bowl. And she's trying to move it, and he's trying to guide the bowl. (laughter) All right, fine, fine. I'll have a cup, then, I guess. 
AABRIA: "Okay, okay, okay." 
MATT: Take it slow. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) 
AABRIA: "Like this one. Sorry. Continue with your truths that I am learning now." 
ROBBIE: So we all have drinks. Is that right now? We all have them? 
AABRIA: Yep. 
ROBBIE: Ahem. All right. A promise is a promise. First name only. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
ROBBIE: And I get one deep dark secret about each of you, even you, even you. 
AABRIA: "Me?" 
ROBBIE: Deal? 
AABRIA: "Okay!" 
ROBBIE: All right. 
AABRIA: "I have no secrets. I have so many secrets, but I could lie." 
ROBBIE: My real first name-- and you must promise to continue to call me Dorian-- 
LIAM: Of course. 
ROBBIE: -- is... Brontë. And my mother calls me Bron. 
AIMEE: It's not the worst name! 
AABRIA: "That makes more sense as a name." 
ANJALI: I don't understand why this is a problem. 
AIMEE: Yeah, that's a nice name. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: First name only. And since you're so keen to talk, you first. What is your dark and dirty secret? 
AABRIA: "Ooh, yes." 
ANJALI: I don't know about dark and dirty. There's not much about me that is dark and dirty. 
AABRIA: "That's not true." 
AIMEE: (laughs) 
ROBBIE: This one, I believe. Fine, something fun. 
ANJALI: There was that one time with my sister, my sister Fy'ra Kai. Always getting herself into trouble and getting me into trouble with our parents, too. When we were much younger, not even here, not on Tal'Dorei, but back home. It was just slightly before we left. We were climbing this-- I don't know how to say it in Common, but climbing this fiery outcropping back home. And she was more agile than me. Yes, I know. I know, it is surprising, but she was always better than me at so many things. She was climbing this outcropping and suddenly she lost her footing and she fell and I tried to catch her. And when I caught her, she knocked me over, along with her. And I broke my arm. We went back to my parents and I was gritting my teeth. And she was sobbing. Sobbing because she knew she would be the one to get in trouble. So when we went back to my parents, I told them immediately that I had been climbing a fiery outcropping and I fell and broke my arm. 
AIMEE: You lied. 
ANJALI: I lied. My little sister received no punishment. I, on the other hand, I definitely did. The dark secret about that is I think she never actually forgave me for that. She hated that I took the credit and the responsibility for something that she had done. Anytime I tried to protect her after that, she would not let me. Including when we came to this plane and despite the protections, the magic and the love that my mother had given us, she would not let the best protection stay with her. Which was me. 
AIMEE: Well, I can understand her-- I can understand where she's coming from. 
ANJALI: This is why I understand your sister. 
ROBBIE: Well, Fy, only you can turn a drinking game into a parable. 
AABRIA: "That!" 
ROBBIE: What? 
AABRIA: "No, I agree with you." 
ROBBIE: (laughs) 
AABRIA: "Thought we were going to say spicier things," and she takes a shot of her drink and goes, "Tetrarch Umejii stayed with me before she left for the south." (clicks tongue) 
ANJALI: Really? 
AABRIA: "Yes. None of you know what that means, but I know you know what that means." 
MATT: Wow, I mean-- 
AABRIA: "Thank you, thank you!" 
MATT: I have no idea. 
AABRIA: "Oh." 
AABRIA: "Drink more." 
LIAM: Some things transcend language. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
AABRIA: "Okay, someone else go. What is your name?" 
LIAM: After finishing his drink. My name is Orym. Orym of the Air Ashari. I don't have a last name. Although, I sort of do, sort of. Didn't really have a dad in life. I did have a dad, but he just kind of rolled on. His name, last name was Tarrintel. So I sort of have a last name. I don't really use it. But if you want saltier, I might have checked out Dariax's butt out in the swimming hole and it wasn't half bad. 
AABRIA: "Who's Dar--" 
MATT: Thank you very much. Appreciate that. Worked hard to get that apple popping. 
AABRIA: And she happily refills your drink at whatever level it's at currently. 
LIAM: Thank you. 
AABRIA: "That's a good answer. So you, beautiful-- What are you?" 
ASHLEY: Oh, I'm a faun. 
AABRIA: "Oh, lovely." 
ASHLEY: My name is Fearne. 
AABRIA: "Fearne." 
AABRIA: "Who's that?" 
ASHLEY: Oh, this is Mister. 
AABRIA: "Hello, Mister." 
ASHLEY: We met him in, um... a fire crater and I pulled him out of the ground. And he's my monkey now. Yeah. 
AABRIA: "Did that translate right?" 
ANJALI: It did, from everything I can understand. 
AABRIA: "Okay. Sure." 
ANJALI: I have not been with them for all of their travels. 
ROBBIE: Is there any of that fry bread? Do the thing, make it here. If maybe he can eat something. Show her, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Take a little piece of the fry bread and throw in the air so he can-- 
AABRIA: What do you want him to do? Yeah, do you want him to just like-- yeah. I'm going to make you roll for it. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
AABRIA: This is a coordinated effort. So give me an acrobatics check. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Oh no. That is not very good. That's a six. He has performance anxiety. (laughter) 
AABRIA: You toss the bread and he gives that belch a little too soon and it just goes in the air. And then the bread just lands in his open mouth. He's like-- 
ANJALI: Oh, that's really cute. 
ASHLEY: This is the first time he's had to perform for somebody, so. 
AABRIA: "You don't have to perform. That's terrifying, I like it. You're a very nice Mister." 
ASHLEY: Yeah. Boy, I don't know if I have any secrets. I'm a bit of an open book, but I guess... I haven't seen my parents in a really long time. They left probably... 50 years ago, I guess. 
AABRIA: "And you asked me if I'm immortal? She looks like she's 20. How old are you?" 
ASHLEY: Oh, we live a very long time. 
AABRIA: "And you asked me if I'm immortal! Rude." 
LIAM: How old are you again? 
ASHLEY: I'm 112. But we live-- fauns live for-- 
LIAM: Right, right, right. 
ASHLEY: I don't know. I think hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years. 
AABRIA: "Amazing." 
ASHLEY: You know. 
AABRIA: "Oh yeah, like you do. Just be-- live forever. Be a cute little faun with the little fur and the little fire boy. Totally normal, yes." 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: So nothing embarrassing. Nothing at faun school. Nothing you've done that made you blush underneath your fur, ever? 
LIAM: She did poop in front of all of us. 
ROBBIE: I know. Maybe that doesn't make her blush. 
ASHLEY: It doesn't make me blush. Let me think about it. I can't think of anything embarrassing. Dariax? 
MATT: I don't know anything embarrassing about you. 
ASHLEY: No, I mean, what's your secret? 
MATT: Oh, uh... (nervous laugh) I mean, like you, I'm a pretty open book. Not a lot of hidden shades in the past of old Dariax. 
AABRIA: I would like to roll an insight check, please. 
MATT: Yeah, go for it. 
AABRIA: I only got a 10. 
MATT: That's all right, he got... he got a 10. 
AABRIA: All right, you're good. She just looks at you. "Okay." 
MATT: Uh, well. Here, I'll-- Let's just say, when I-- When I mentioned that me and Tharla started dating for a while in Kymal, maybe it was a-- we didn't like-- It wasn't like a-- we weren't-- She doesn't know who I am. I was just a big fan of her work. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
ROBBIE: No. You don't know her at all? 
MATT: Well, I mean, I'd go see her perform and stuff but you know, every time I try and say hi, I just kind of froze up. It's the one time that's really happened, you know? I usually don't have anything to stop me to an honest detriment. Not most of the time, but for some reason, it just kept-- kept freezing me. I don't know. So, so I lied. Sorry. Kind of embarrassing. Anyway. Opal. What's going on with you? You, you got some, well, you ate your sister, right. We already went over that. 
AABRIA: "What?!" 
AIMEE: I didn't eat her. She just found her way in without asking. I have an embarrassing story. So Ted's real name is actually Theodora. (giggles) 
MATT: That's pretty. 
ANJALI: That's not a story about you. 
AABRIA: "What's a Ted? You keep going. I don't know what's happening. I'm just happy to be here." 
ROBBIE: For once-- 
ANJALI: That is her sister. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, a story about you, about Opal. Sans Ted, something about Opal. 
AIMEE: I've never done anything without Ted. I've never done anything without Ted, except... leave home and join you guys. But even that I'm not doing alone. So, I don't know. I changed my name, too, actually. 
AABRIA: "Do all of you have lies for names? Why is that?" 
AIMEE: Yes, because you, well, wait for it, okay? So my mom left before I could even know who she was, but she named me Georgina. Georgina and Theodora. So I made my dad change my name to Opal because I hated it. And I hated her. (giggles) So, cheers. 
AABRIA: "That one was sad and I don't like it." 
ROBBIE: Well, I'll still always call you Opal. 
AIMEE: Thanks, I'll call you Dorian. 
ROBBIE: Thank you. 
AIMEE: 'Til I call you Bron. 
ROBBIE: Oh, s-- All right, Georgie Porgie. 
AIMEE: (gasps) That's rude. 
LIAM: This is the tensest our group has ever gotten. That's not true. 
AIMEE: That's not true! (laughter) 
AABRIA: "All right, all right." 
ANJALI: Fy'ra's just trying to read the room and decide whether she opens her mouth again to say something else and share something else. But she feels like perhaps it's become a little bit more tense than fun. So she... She lets it go. 
AABRIA: Genar is going to make eye contact with you and just give you a little nod. "Okay, that's enough of hospitality from me. You need to go speak to people who understand mountains with runes on them. And then you can come back here and drink my alcohol and be weird at each other as much as you want." 
MATT: Plenty of that, sounds great. 
AIMEE: Titty racks? 
AABRIA: "What are you saying?" 
ANJALI: Opal, this joke will not be funny to the tetrarchs. Be respectful. 
AABRIA: "Are you saying tetrarch funny?" 
AIMEE: Okay. 
AABRIA: "What's titty rack?" 
ANJALI: You don't want to know. 
AABRIA: "No, you don't tell me how I want. What is titty rack?" 
AIMEE: It's a rack. But it's extra funny because it's-- 
ASHLEY: Like a double rack. 
AIMEE: Double rack. Titty rack. 
ASHLEY: It's a redundancy a little bit, yeah. 
LIAM: Wordplay. 
AABRIA: "Oh!" 
AIMEE: Titty rack. 
AABRIA: "Okay." 
AIMEE: She thought it was funny. 
AABRIA: "Yeah. I think it's funny, but I'm drunk. So follow me, come on. Or are you going to take them? I'll stay here and clean the house." 
ANJALI: I will take them and leave what you can for later. And I will do it when we come. 
AABRIA: "See, this is what happens. I throw a little fit and then she does everything for me." 
ROBBIE: So we're going to see the most powerful beings in this ancient, mystical city, a little bit tipsy? 
MATT: Like I said-- 
AABRIA: "Powerful beings?" 
MATT: No better way-- 
AABRIA: "No, no, no, no, no, not-- they're just the leaders. They're just people. What's wrong?" 
ANJALI: Just remember please, respectful. 
ROBBIE: Respect the titty racks. 
ASHLEY: Always. 
AABRIA: "We cannot c-- (laughs) You can call them whatever you want." 
AIMEE: So are they elected leaders of this place? 
AABRIA: "Yes." 
AIMEE: Oh. 
AABRIA: "So-- oh, I can give-- okay. Here's a thing that I know and I can tell you. So long ago when we were more than just Niirdal-Poc, this was the capital city, but not the only city here. The Qoniira Tetrarchy was five cities. One to the north, one to the south, one to the east, to the west and we were at the center. And-- actually, night is falling. So maybe we can see--" and she leans and walks a couple steps through the garden to get from the overhang, to look up into the night sky. And before she can point, she just screams and you see her reach down, grab a clod of dirt and throw it up. And you hear it connects with something and you hear giggles as children scream. She's goes, "These fucking children, always. How long were you hanging--? It doesn't matter. All of that can be explained by a different tetrarch. But we were a powerful widespread civilization that is only here now. But the Qoniira, we have four leaders, tetrarchs. One at each of the cities on the peripheral. And they would come here whenever they needed to make group decisions. Everything else was held by one of them. But they're all here now because we're all that's left." 
ANJALI: You did mention that someone had gone south. Which of the tetrarchs has left? 
AABRIA: "Umejii." 
ANJALI: What? 
AABRIA: "She's gone to go see if perhaps the Iron Authority is-- once again, none of this is official. So don't go running your mouths." 
ANJALI: But I came here to see her. I was taking them to see her. 
AABRIA: "I'm sorry. She's been gone now for a week." 
MATT: That's fine, right? We can just go ahead and head to the Iron Authority, then, wherever that is. 
AABRIA: "No, don't-- no." (laughs) No." 
AIMEE: What's the Iron Authority? 
AABRIA: "Oh god, oh. It's a whole... to the south. There are others, much like Tal'Dorei to the north and your civil society. There are societies to the south that know only war. That follow the-- do you still call them Betrayer Gods?" 
MATT: Yeah. That's a phrase that's used. 
AABRIA: "Okay. Much more in their thrall. Would not recommend it unless you are looking to start or finish a war." 
ANJALI: So she has put herself in danger. 
AABRIA: "You two have that in common." 
ANJALI: Then let's go quickly to see the other tetrarchs. I must know more. 
MATT: Okay. 
AABRIA: "Okay, goodbye, um--" 
ANJALI: Thank you. We will be back. 
AABRIA: "We'll see you later." And she grabs you by the shoulders and kisses you on the forehead and then leads you out to the front door. 
ANJALI: I give a quick little snuggle to Googal. 
AABRIA: Googal has just been eating all of the bits of food that have fallen off because there's not a lot of plates. So he has put himself in a food coma, just getting the leavings and has just fallen asleep. 
AIMEE: He deserves it. 
AABRIA: And as you guys get back out onto the streets it's that last couple of minutes of twilight before it goes fully dark and the fog has gotten much thicker and the air is pushed through with this hazy, gray, golden glow and you lead them toward it in its direction, until you finally reach the main plaza of Niirdal-Poc. And standing at the center of it is this massive, 40-foot high statue of a feline humanoid with a really serene face looking into her own clutched hand, holding that gray gold light that seems to be diffused out and everywhere. And there's this shattered halo of light around it. And from her back springs four large feathery wings. You recognize this as a statue of The Observer. 
ANJALI: I do. And before I say anything, I look up. I put my hands to my chest and I go to The Gift to see if I can see anything about Tetrarch Umejii. 
AABRIA: Make a wisdom saving throw for me. 
ANJALI: Yeah, no. 
AABRIA: You can't seem to still your heart and your mind enough to look inward. But Dariax, I need you to make a charisma saving throw. 
MATT: Yeah, totally. Yeah, why not. Nine. 
AABRIA: You feel suddenly-- not sickened, but dizzy and overwhelmed. And both of you close your eyes in unison. You going to look and trying to calm your mind and Dariax as you lean over, eyes turn to you and you see that, that pendant that you wear, that compass is glowing with the same gray gold light. And that's where we're going to take our break. 
ASHLEY, AIMEE, MATT, and ROBBIE: Ooh! 
AABRIA: Yeah, the plot thickens. 
MATT: Intrigue! 
AABRIA: All right. We will return in a couple of minutes. Stay tuned. I never know what to do here. I hope you leave this in the cut. Just my full panic confusion. (laughter) Goodbye, we'll be back! 

Break[]
NARRATOR: Cubeamajig are reusable gaming packs that recreate the experience of opening a sealed pack of cards. Additionally, they are an efficient way to organize a signboard or collection. Cubeamajig series two makes a few improvements, for starters, no more building the packs. They come preassembled. Each box includes 10 Cubeamajig gaming packs. Also the outer box can be reused to store 400 cards. There are over 30 pieces of gorgeous art by your favorite MTG artists. Now, if only there was a storage solution for all of these gaming packs. Well, the wait is over. Say hello to the Potamajig. Made for cube, commander, and card collections. Potamajigs are a storage solution specifically crafted for the Cubeamajig. A single Potamajig is ideal for 360 to 540 card cubes with an overall capacity over 1,000 double sleeved cards. Potamajigs can also hold nine double sleeved commander decks with spare room for tokens. Starting with five amazing designs, more Potamajigs can be unlocked during the campaign. Back Cubeamajig series two, today. 
LAURA: Hey Critters, Laura Bailey here. Let's see what's up in the Critical Role shops. I mean, the Traveler always says impulse purchases on a good decision. Roll an investigation if you want. It's basically perfect. (engine revving) You're only like five clicks away from owning this. Maybe more, if you have a lot of windows open on your browser. I don't know your life. (liquid pouring) This is a lot of stuff, you guys. We have like, so many cool things right now. I mean, seriously, look at this thing. So click on over to the Critical Roll shops. Don't worry, there's a few more minutes in the break. You've still got time. 
LIAM: These episodes are just like the pure essence of the characters and what we did together.
SAM: It's a project unlike anything I've ever seen before. 
ASHLEY: It's so weird that it's happening, but it's so cool. 
MATT: I'm getting impatient for the final thing to get done, just so people can see it, and be as excited about it as we are. 
MARY ELIZABETH: Your minds are gonna be blown, y'all! (rock version "Your Turn to Roll") 
MATT: As a person that has been a lifelong fan of cartoons, it's kind of been a dream to work on one from a production standpoint, let alone from a voiceover standpoint. And now to kind of marry them all together, and have it be based on something that I kind of made up, is crazy. 
ARTHUR: At end of the day, the creators of this property are professional voice actors. And seeing them working on their own disparate projects is cool, but seeing them all in one room together, it's so good. 
LIAM: We are just a group of high-key nerds, but we also happen to be good at what we do. It's like we're craftsmen who make tables, except we are great with voice work, and now just endless improv with each other. 
SAM: Voice acting as a character that I created in a show that I helped create, it's both the end of a long voice acting journey, and also the beginning of a new voice acting journey. 
MARY ELIZABETH: Give us a couple, rolling on 45. 
MATT: Finding a director for this project was challenging, partially because we have very good directors as part of our cast who do phenomenal work. But we all also understood that we wanted somebody outside of the room who could make us better than we could be on our own. 
TRAVIS: It was a very short list, and at the top of it, of course, was our good friend, Mary Elizabeth McGlynn. 
MARY ELIZABETH: I've been directing all of these amazing actors for years. For me, creativity comes with trust, and I think we all trust each other enough to help bring out the best with each other. And there's enough respect there to make sure that this collaborative area is safe. 
MARISHA: Beyond all of us just personally loving Mary Elizabeth McGlynn, you may remember her is Zahra back in Campaign One. 
LAURA: On top of just coming and doing guest episodes for us, she actually watched the series. She would text us during the game and be like, "Oh my god, I can't believe that just happened!" So she knows who our characters are and she knows where they're going. 
LIAM: We didn't have to give her any kind of information download. She knows it and is part of it. 
MARY ELIZABETH: Those few episodes that I actually got to go on as Zahra in Critical Role changed my life. It changed my perspective on so many things. And it taught me how important storytelling was. 
TRAVIS: It's been amazing watching her come into each one of the sessions, settle us down, get our minds in the right space for where the episode is. And then just step back with her baton, and just start to conduct the symphony of idiots that's in there. 
SAM: When we started this whole thing, playing tabletop around Matt's dining room table, we were all gathered together, the eight of us, in a room face-to-face. And now recording the cartoon, we are all eight of us in a room together, and we are creating a story together, just us eight friends. 
MARY ELIZABETH: Everybody, at a mic, in one room. And that energy was electric. (upbeat string music) 
ASHLEY: Stepping into that booth the first time was obviously very, very exciting. I think all of us were like: "Is this a joke?" Is someone pulling a prank on us?" (laughs) 
LAURA: We were giddy, giddy with excitement. 
MARY ELIZABETH: The joy and elation that was in that room was something that still is carried through every aspect of this process. 
SAM: The energy in the room when we're recording is just like it was in those early days when we were making each other laugh, cracking each other up, laughing at each other's mistakes and flubs. 
TALIESIN: It's an interesting, strange mix between extremely professional and a very filthy preschool where everyone's swearing all the time. (laughs) 
LAURA: You know, we've all been in the booth with each other in various ways in the past, anyway. But it's so different when it's something that you've created. 
TALIESIN: I've never been part of a show where the main cast were also more or less producers. So we have an intense amount of control with what happens. 
MARY ELIZABETH: So the challenge for me with this was to distance them all from that, and have them all be in the moment in the studio, and just to let 'em run with it. 
LAURA: Mary is so in tune with the actors. 
MARY ELIZABETH: Give us one more version that's got a little of that Scanlan bounce, less earnest. 
MARISHA: She knows exactly how to get us out of the comfort zones of our character, which I think is important. We know these characters so well that I think sometimes that can get in our own way. 
MATT: Having her ideas, and her overall creative view, and lathering that in with ours, has helped us elevate our performances, and bring it to the best version of it it can be. 
MARY ELIZABETH: Three, two, one. 
ALL: (yelling) 
TRAVIS: Not all animation allows actors to record in group settings, but it invariably gives a more nuanced performance, and also provides a better opportunity for chemistry to happen in the group. 
LIAM: We'd all been imagining it, and it was just as much fun, and inspiring, and beautiful a thing as we thought it would be. 
MARY ELIZABETH: Lightning in a fucking bottle just happening every time we got in the studio. 
TALIESIN: That was just the greatest thing ever. And we got to do it a couple times. 
MARY ELIZABETH: And then the pandemic hit. 
TALIESIN: And then everything, of course, fell apart everywhere. 
LIAM: Okay, so this is where I have been doing my twinning. 
LAURA: Recording studio. This is legit. 
ASHLEY: This is where the magic happens. 
TRAVIS: We found that we quickly had to go remote just like everyone else. 
MARY ELIZABETH: Now we do everything on Zoom, through either Source Connect or IPDTL. 
TRAVIS: For us on the voiceover side, we were partially prepared for that. Most of us have some kind of a rig set up at home so that we can audition. 
LIAM: I mean, I personally had put off trying to make a good home booth for myself for years, but then suddenly the world shut down. And it's funny what a little panic will do as an incentive. 
MATT: I had to completely re-overhaul my office in the period of a couple of weeks to make it a studio. 
TRAVIS: We tried to find the area of our house that was most insulated, something that didn't share an exterior wall. And for us, that was our closet in our bedroom. It already works because most of the clothes in your closet act as a natural dampener. 
MARISHA: Once more into the darkness. It was definitely hard not to feel concerned that we might be losing a piece of the magic by having to switch to a remote recording session. 
MATT: I really miss being able to do it all together. But thankfully, a lot of us came up in video games, so we're used to the solo recording experience. And a lot of us can still deliver at the top of our game without having other people there to play off of. 
SAM: We record each individual actor from home. Usually one at a time, but sometimes two or three people can record together via the magic of online communication. 
MARISHA: So if there are scenes where you really want that more conversational dynamic between two actors, we've done sessions where Liam will stay on the Zoom call with me. And he is reading his lines. That way Keyleth sounds the most genuine in her response to him. 
ASHLEY: Even though we're separate, there are some positives to it. 
SAM: Since we're recording individually, remotely from different locations, we can talk over each other all we want. And it's getting picked up on two separate mics, and the audio is totally clean. 
ASHLEY: You can have a little bit more of a natural read, almost. 
LIAM: (as Vax) What did I say? It's not like I suggested we take a bath together or something. 
LAURA: (as Vex) What?! 
MARY ELIZABETH: So you get a much more fun time with improvisation, and laughing, and reacting, and it's live, and it's real. So I see that as one of the great silver linings of having to do everything at home. 
SAM: The other thing it sort of affords us, is we get to go back and fix anything that we think is bad. So, like, Liam will watch an episode of the show and be like, "Ooh, I wish I could redo that line." And we're like, "Hey, guess what? You can! You own a microphone, go record it." 
MARISHA: I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing, because I can potentially spend 10 minutes on a single line doing 15 takes because I just want to make sure that it's perfect. And we're always our own worst critic. 
SAM: It's turned a lot of really good scenes into excellent scenes. 
ASHLEY: We've all been forced to readjust, but we've all taken that challenge. 
TALIESIN: Normally in a project like this, you're kind of in the dark about things, but we all know what we're doing, what everybody else is capable of. 
SAM: It also helps that we've played these characters a zillion times. 
ASHLEY: Performance-wise, I don't know if it has affected anything other than me just consciously knowing that I'm in a closet. 
LAURA: It's weird to say, it doesn't feel that different. 
ASHLEY: We've adjusted, because what else can you do? 
MATT: Thankfully, we do still have table reads. So we still get to like read it together before we record. I kind of miss being able to go and engage with the development teams and the artists in person, and kind of have that around the table designer meetings throughout the week. And it's all just Zoom screens now. 
TRAVIS: I think one of the most rewarding things for us has been casting and recording these characters that we have enjoyed and loved coming out of Matthew Mercer's mouth. But obviously, because of reasons, we need to find new voices for them. 
MATT: I still want to hold onto some characters that I feel a connection with. So I am excited to be coming in as Sylas Briarwood. Beyond that, popping up here and there as all sorts of random characters and NPCs in the world. 
TALIESIN: There will definitely be some voices you will not be surprised to hear. Can't talk about so many things yet, but it's going to be great. (laughs) 
SAM: When it comes right down to it, we love acting with our voices, whether it's in radio commercials, or video games, or our own animated series. So you can bet that we put our heart and soul into every recording of every line. 
LIAM: It's crazy that we've got to make this amazing show, that I cannot wait for people to see, in little pods all by ourself. 
TALIESIN: It's still coming together, just much more slowly. And it still sounds so good. 
MARY ELIZABETH: Look, every project has love behind it. And I know that you can feel it. But there's something special about this. There's something special about this group. 
TRAVIS: The epic level of this show, I think is going to blow people away. It was what we were hoping for. And then we quickly realized that even we had to raise our level of expectation because we can. 
MATT: We want this to be a love letter to all the people that supported us through all this time, and made all of this possible. 
MARY ELIZABETH: I'm a Critter, too, so I'm as much of a fan as you guys are. So I think you're just going to love it. 
ASHLEY: I can't wait for people to see it, it's so cool. 
TRAVIS: Everything that's being brought to the table, performance-wise, is going to level people. 
MATT: There have been challenges, but I think we've all kind of risen to the task of making sure that it didn't prevent us from making this the best show we can make it. 
TRAVIS: I know it's been a long wait for the fans. Trust me, it's worth it. (instrumental version of "Your Turn to Roll") 

Part II[]
AABRIA: We're back. And you made it, finally, to the truth, that the ruins that you were seeking was actually the city of Niirdal-Poc, buried, hidden, secret, within the center of the Rifenmist Peninsula. You made your way through, you found a friend, and now the six of you stand in front of a massive statue known as The Observer, as Dariax has a bit of a moment. Dariax. Let's do this one more time. Can I get a charisma saving throw from you? 
MATT: Another one? Okay. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
MATT: That's marginally better. That's a 15. 
AABRIA: You feel yourself swoon, but you're able to hold your consciousness within you. As you look up and you cannot help but see this face, staring at the light within its hands, tilts down, ever so slightly, and regards you. "Hello. Are you okay?" 
MATT: Hey. Maybe. 
AABRIA: Her hand opens, releasing that light, and you see that shattered halo-- None of you see this. You see that shattered halo fill itself back in valences of light, the same thing replicated on the pendant that you wear around your neck. "You seem surprised to see me." 
MATT: There's been a lot of people in my head recently. It's a thing. 
AABRIA: "I don't know what to tell you about all of that, but I want you to know that I like what you're doing, and you will continue to have my favor, should you need it." 
MATT: Cool. Cool, cool, cool, cool, cool. Who are you? 
AABRIA: And her mouth opens, and there's a disconnect, because you see the lips forming words, but the sound you hear is, "I observe." 
MATT: Okay. Little creepy, but I appreciate the outreach. 
AABRIA: "The Gift is strong with many, yourself included." 
MATT: Okay. Gift? 
AABRIA: "My chosen are coming. They will explain more. I just thought-- I didn't want to let this opportunity slide by without introducing myself." 
MATT: No, I appreciate that. It's been a lot. A lot kind of goes this way. So the direct approach is very helpful. Thank you, Observer. 
AABRIA: And she reaches up and grabs that light again, shattering the halo and pulling you back to yourself, and you see her now, frozen in that statue pose. 
ASHLEY: Who's this? 
ANJALI: She is The Observer. 
ASHLEY: Oh. 
ANJALI: One who sees all and helps-- Helps others to see. But for some reason, now I can't. We must go. Are you okay? 
MATT: She's also pretty nice. 
ANJALI: She spoke to you? 
MATT: I mean, briefly. It was a little weird. Still kind of processing it. Where are these--? 
ANJALI: The Tetrarchs. 
MATT: Yes. Thank you. I wasn't going to say it again, because that would be rude. 
ANJALI: Very wise of you, my friend. 
MATT: I can also pay attention. 
ANJALI: We move quickly. 
MATT: Cool. 
AABRIA: You know that this main civic hall is actually just on the far side of the plaza. It faces this massive statue. So you are essentially where you need to be. And you see this massive edifice, once again of that same smooth, gray-green concrete, like a massive snifter of brandy, standing, bulbous, in the town plaza. But in front of it are two massive, purple, porphyry statues of four-legged creatures that look like a panther on steroids, with three faces, one looking up, one looking down, and one looking out and away from the doors. And over the top, that same runic writing. 
ANJALI: Let me lead. And please, do not speak, until I gesture it is okay, or until you are asked to. 
ROBBIE: Deal. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, you got it. 
MATT: Ahoy. 
ANJALI: I lead them inside. 
AABRIA: You push inside, and there's this massive reflecting pool of shallow water, that's lit with gentle, red flame. And at the far end of the pool, that's about 40 feet in this massive hallway, that opens up gardens on the inside of the doors, you see a tall, elephantine person, with symbols of the crescent moon, and a smaller, redder moon at the center of their forehead, in long, flowing white robes, calmly regarding you, and gives you a nod immediately. 
ANJALI: I bow and come forward. Follow. I come forward, and walk up to them. And I kneel down before them, holding my wrist and my hand before my forehead. And then I rise. It's just good to see you, Tetrarch Thrascuur. 
AABRIA: "You were well missed, Fy'ra Rai, and company?" 
ANJALI: Yes. For many reasons, the jungle has seen fit to bring my friends to you, and I have brought them as well. 
AABRIA: "Interesting. Portents and omens. But you are here now." 
ANJALI: I have heard rumblings. Is Umejii here? 
AABRIA: They turn their head to the side, and you see them playing idly with a tusk that's been carved in this really ornate scrimshaw, and finished in silver filigree. And eventually, "You've been here for so little time, and yet you've heard the most interesting things here. She is not. She has gone south." 
ANJALI: Damn it. 
AABRIA: "Peace." 
ANJALI: Is she in danger? 
AABRIA: "I wish that I could tell you that she was not, but I do not lie. Not about this. You know as well as I do that where she goes, danger follows." 
ANJALI: You know The Gift shows me where I am needed. That the only reason I need it is to know where I am needed, so I never have to fail someone I love again. 
AABRIA: "The Gift led you to them, and you led them here." 
ANJALI: I did. 
AABRIA: "Then take that as enough of a sign, and be at peace." 
ANJALI: I am sorry. You are right, of course, wise one. 
AABRIA: "My name is Tetrarch Thrascuur. I am one of the four leaders of what remains of the Qoniira Tetrarchy." 
ANJALI: These, my companions, have come here on a very important journey. Dorian Storm, Orym of the Air Ashari. Fearne, Dariax, and Opal. There is something greater I have not yet seen, but they are here to ask your help. 
AABRIA: And Thrascuur's eyes linger on both Dariax and Opal, and then Opal, you catch their eye, and you watch as two dark eyes begin to fill, impossibly, with stars and galaxies, and you feel a faint prickle across your skin, as magic seems to flow over you, as they regard you. "Interesting." 
AIMEE: We're not allowed to talk. 
AABRIA: "What?" 
AIMEE: That's what she said. 
ANJALI: Opal. 
AABRIA: "You're allowed to-- I apologize. I am told that I am severe. You are allowed to talk." 
AIMEE: Okay. I was going to ask, how did you get that cool silver stuff? It's really cool. 
AABRIA: "Thank you. There is little for us to do here, but to reflect and decorate and create ourselves into that which we would be. So I just do this." (laughter) A little weirdly proud of their horns, or their tusks. 
AIMEE: That sounds like a dream. 
MATT: I'm going to lean over to Dorian while this is happening and be like: See, a lot of us have surnames, too, but only yours got said. That's called branding. You're doing great. 
AABRIA: "Would you all come and talk with me upstairs, where there's a little more air?" 
LIAM: Of course. 
MATT: Totally. 
AABRIA: "Is there anything you need? Food?" 
MATT: Yeah. 
AIMEE: We're really full. 
MATT: No, we're good. We're good. 
ANJALI: We have been well-fed. I had to stop to see her. 
AABRIA: "Okay, that's why you know, all right." 
ANJALI: Oh, uh-- Don't tell her I said something. 
AABRIA: "I mean, I'm going to." 
ANJALI: Fine, I deserve it. 
AABRIA: "You are as severe as I am." And they turn and file out of the hall, and start sweeping up a set of very dark stairs, once again, lit with these pale red flames. And they lead you up to the roof, which is this massive, flat space covered in, once again blankets and pillows, and this interesting contraption in the center of what is essentially a 40 by 80-foot flat space of mirrors. And a single lens pointed up towards the sky, a sky that you look up and see is full of stars, and you haven't seen the stars in so long. 
ANJALI: It is always easier to breathe easy here. 
AIMEE: I mean, someone could have told me that my roots were growing in. I feel like that's something you should have mentioned. Sorry. 
AABRIA: "Your hair looks lovely." 
AIMEE: Thanks. I just-- I haven't seen a mirror in a long time, so it's just like, "Blaugh!" But you know, here we are. 
AABRIA: "Actually." And they walk over to the contraption, and you see them lift a panel of ornate brass, and they actually slide a mirror free and offer it to you. 
AIMEE: Thanks. (giggles) 
AABRIA: You look like shit. (laughs) You've been in the jungle for weeks. I cannot overstate. 
ANJALI: Does she still have her sateen head wrap? 
AIMEE: No, I had to take it off. 
AABRIA: She had to take it off. 
AABRIA: I mean-- 
AIMEE: I don't know what I-- 
AABRIA: Your hair looks great, because it never got wet. 
AIMEE: I don't know what I was protecting. 
AABRIA: I'm saying the rest of you is a little ragged. 
AIMEE: I feel like I've aged. It's Ted. She's sucking the beauty out of me. 
ANJALI: She has some things going on with her sister. But more, for the moment, I believe that your runes are something you want to speak to the tetrarch about. 
AIMEE: Yes, do you have-- 
AABRIA: Before you put the mirror-- Do you just pocket the mirror? 
AIMEE: Yep. (laughter) 
AIMEE: But only out of custom. So sorry. I didn't-- I know this isn't a gift. I don't know. 
AABRIA: And they reach out to take it back, and in that moment, where both your hands and their hands are touching the mirror, you feel a little shimmer of energy, and you look down at the mirror and you see your face, but different. Your hair has gone to white, and one of your eyes is blue, and one of your eyes is brown. 
AIMEE: Oh. I think this mirror's a bad one, but thanks so much. 
AABRIA: "Did you touch the--" 
AIMEE: Sorry. 
AABRIA: "It's fine." 
AIMEE: I think you should get it adjusted. Sometimes mirrors aren't the best-- 
ANJALI: So, the runes? 
AABRIA: "Sometimes mirrors show you more than you expect to see." 
MATT: I pull out the scribblings from the large obelisk that we found a short time ago, as well as the original rune that we found at the top of the mountain, and I look over at Fearne. So, we all traveled. We were little ways north of here, on Tal-- Gwessar, and this giant mountain sort of appeared out of nowhere, and it was creating ash and fire. And my friend Fearne here, and her passively functional monkey interacted with the elemental fire there to a strange degree. But it was specifically a writing that none of us could understand. And a friend of ours-- I call him a friend, because it's fun. We just met him. His name's Shaun Gilmore, a fabulous individual. If you ever find yourself in Emon, look him up. He's great. But he sent us here to see if maybe we could figure out what this symbology means, and if it's dangerous, if it's something we need to figure out what its nature is. Fearne, if you need to talk on this at all? And I hand the papers over and quickly back up. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, that was great. 
AABRIA: In that moment where you hand off the papers, where both your hand is touching the parchment, as is theirs, you feel a little ripple of energy, and your pendant flashes with that same light that you see now, from the balcony, permeates every other part of this city that is lit up, even at night, except for up here, where a few small flames burn red. 
MATT: I quickly take my hanging pendant and tuck it into my little chain shirt. (clears throat) 
AABRIA: "Do you have anything to add?" 
ASHLEY: He did a very good job. But yeah, essentially this mountain just shot up out of the ground, and in the middle was this rune. And we're just trying to figure out what it all means. 
AABRIA: "What does that have to do with all of this?" 
ASHLEY: Well, I pulled him out of the ground. 
AABRIA: "With your own hands?" 
ASHLEY: Well, yes. 
AABRIA: "Incredible." 
ANJALI: Tetrarch Thrascuur. The only other time I have heard of anything like this happening, even remotely close, was when my parents fought, long ago. 
AABRIA: "Yes." 
ANJALI: It worries me now. 
AABRIA: "This symbol, the one you said is on the mountain that rose up, it is a marker of a place too full of energy, ripe for creation, for potential. What do you think magic is? How do you understand it?" 
LIAM: Well, I've heard it discussed as being the raw potential of the world around us. 
AABRIA: "Yes. Yes, exactly. It is-- It is undifferentiated. It is not divine. It is not something wrought by man. It is not nature. It is whatever it needs to be. It is simply power. The decision, the deciding makes it a thing." And they reach down and pick up one of the little oil lamps. "The power of this candle is nothing against the thought that I have to put it out. So what is a thought against something that turns and burns in the world? All of this place, all of Exandria, holds potential, holds energy, grabs it, takes it, makes it and gives it. But it is the decision of you reaching into a place, full and ripe, and deciding to bring something into being. That is the power that some call of the gods, that some called the arcane. It is power and it is beautiful, and for you to know that, to have seen it up close. I understand now why you are here. You are incredible. All of you. What would you have me do with this symbol?" 
LIAM: Well, the place in the world where we come from, which has been more or less at peace for a little while, anyway. 
AABRIA: "What is a little while?" 
LIAM: A few decades. 
AABRIA: "Go on." 
LIAM: Very little while. But the city that we all joined together in has been having trouble with that kind of raw potential. And this symbol that we've come to ask you about is another instance of it not too far from the city. I don't know if it's a pattern. I don't know if they're connected, but it has folks up there worried. And so, we've been sent down to see if we could come back with any kind of solution or aid. 
AABRIA: "The simple, shortest answer is the rune is proof that something is deciding what it will be. That doesn't mean that it is too late to change its course. I will provide you with whatever information you need for those up there to react to it, however you may." 
ROBBIE: What sort of thing could will a mountain into being? 
MATT: Is it going to get worse? 
AABRIA: "What is worse? More? Yes. But what is worse?" 
MATT: More dangerous, and probably burn a lot of people to death. 
AABRIA: "That may yet be." 
MATT: Okay. 
ANJALI: We cannot allow that to happen again. 
AABRIA: "Will you bend the focus of your life to stop it?" 
ANJALI: I go where The Gift tells me. 
AABRIA: "The Gift is nothing without your intuition and decision behind it, Fy'ra Rai. You focus so much on what that source of power would tell you or have of you, but you, you are the conduit for it. It is simply energy. You focus it with your intention. So what is it that you want? That is what you have always been led to, whether or not you knew it." 
ANJALI: I want to stop this from ever happening again. And if this is where my friends are going, I want to go with them. 
AABRIA: "Who am I to stop you from any choice you would make? The course that you're on, it will end, one way or another, with glory or tears, death or fire. It's the deciding, from moment to moment, that will determine how things really end." 
AIMEE: I call bullshit. 
ANJALI: Opal! 
AABRIA: "No. Go on." 
AIMEE: You say that we can control magic, that power is just energy, and do whatever you want with it. Well, some of us just don't have magic that's our own. So I call bullshit. I think we're just at the whim of whoever controls the power. 
AABRIA: "So who do you think controls you, then?" 
AIMEE: Not me. 
AABRIA: "How old are you?" 
AIMEE: 19. 
AABRIA: "And you have everything figured out?" 
AIMEE: I mean, I have that figured out. 
AABRIA: "What did you see in the mirror?" 
AIMEE: Someone that needs some sleep, and also one of my eyes have changed color, which, not thrilled about. It's probably the stress. 
ASHLEY: Do we notice that? 
AABRIA: No. 
ASHLEY: That wasn't-- 
AABRIA: She looks completely the same. 
MATT: She needs some sleep. She's not wrong. 
AIMEE: Yeah, I need sleep. And (sighs) I just, I don't know. I just think you're coming from a place of privilege, as someone who has power coming out of your titty racks. 
ANJALI: Oh. 
AABRIA: "Titty racks." 
AIMEE: Sorry. I know that's rude. Sometimes I can get rude. 
AABRIA: "I am the leader of a city--" 
AIMEE: I know. Sorry. 
AABRIA: "-- that was lost." 
AIMEE: Look, I'm sorry, I-- 
AABRIA: "Thousands of years." 
AIMEE: You're right. I'm being so disrespectful. I just-- 
AABRIA: "I don't care about your disrespect. I want you to learn the lesson without me spelling it out for you." 
AIMEE: Spell it out. Spell it out. 
AABRIA: "The person you saw in the mirror. Your mother. Yes?" 
AIMEE: I mean, I don't know. I think that's what she looks like, but I don't know. 
AABRIA: "You remember. It's hard to remember, but you remember." 
AIMEE: Mm-hmm. 
AABRIA: "And you are conflicted. Speak it. What are you afraid of?" 
AIMEE: I never had my own life. 
AABRIA: "Every choice you make, I keep going back to it. I apologize. Your life is your own, because you have chosen. Every step that you've taken that has led you from wherever you began to these people, to here. Sweet child," and the tetrarch comes over to you, and hesitates just before embracing you, just trying to consent check. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
AABRIA: And wraps you up and holds you. Now that you're in physical proximity, they are seven feet tall, and completely wrap you up, and just hold you in this moment. "You feel divided, between you and the one that resides within, but you are special, because you are part. Half, whole in yourself, but you are more, just as your mother was. A rarity in this world. Georgina, you and your sister will always walk this world together, but where you go is your choice, your choosing, and she follows you, becomes a part of you because she loves you. And that is her choice, and her choosing. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
AABRIA: "I'm sorry. Your road isn't easy." 
AIMEE: Thanks for the hug. 
AABRIA: And they slowly release you, and set you back on your feet and wipe your eye. "You are, all of you, even you, at the precipice of becoming-- becoming great or terrible things. The world constantly changes, and that's not the gods. That's the men that walk upon the earth, and you are those people that will change the fate of the world. I see omens and portents in the stars, in the moon. And in all of your eyes. I will give you all the information you need to take back to Shaun Gilmore, to do whatever you will do with the runes and the mesa, this place of burning and potential. But you have to decide what you will do. What you will become. And the last I will say is this: power is neither good, nor evil. It simply is." And they regard you, and look towards your pack. 
MATT: Can I hide it? 
AABRIA: "My eyes see much, but like the Observer that came before us, that blessed us with this Gift, this wild, chaotic intuition; magic, it's not for me to tell you what to do, simply to encourage you to do whatever it is in your nature to do. You have not spoken." 
ROBBIE: So wise. Why did your friend, Umejii, leave? 
AABRIA: "She headed south. We were told, intuited that something terrible was coming." 
ROBBIE: Something terrible. 
AABRIA: "Yes. She went to see if those that reside to the south had plans." 
ROBBIE: And she went alone? 
AABRIA: "She works well alone." 
ROBBIE: Hmm. 
AABRIA: "But are you concerned for?" 
ROBBIE: I can't help but wonder. We were sent to this path, and we encountered you, and we were meant for such great things. Why you would like to send us back to where we came? Perhaps we were sent here to help your friend. 
AABRIA: "Something I had not considered. Do you want to help her?" 
ROBBIE: I don't know her, but we are good at helping people. But I'm afraid, perhaps I've made too many decisions for this group as it is, but just couldn't shake the thought. 
MATT: No, no, that's why you're our leader. 
AIMEE: What doesn't make sense is, Elam said that that symbol meant a place of burning, which is kind of like a duh. 
AABRIA: "Yes." 
AIMEE: So-- And then we encountered this big rune or thing and there was all this writing and it sounded like a grocery list. So it feels like there's just-- There's nothing meaningful about the writing. It's like a label, like this is what this is. Yeah, no shit, it's on fire. It's a burning place. So what does Shaun Gilmore need the translator for? I mean, it sounds like it's just kind of redundant. I could be wrong. That's my two cents. 
AABRIA: And you see that the tetrarch is looking at you not unkindly as you voice your truth and they reach into their robes and pull out a small bit of charcoal to write. And they lean down and onto just the blank concrete surface of this roof, begin to draw a symbol. Now, Orym and Dariax both touched that massive sheet of runic writing and were able to intuit it, yes? 
LIAM: I never got-- 
AABRIA: Oh, no, it was Dorian. That's right. Perfect. And as the tetrarch finishes, you see a symbol that especially from this vantage point at this high place in the city, you can glance off to the side and see it looks a little bit like the shape of the city and both of you can read it and you know that this is the name, Niirdal-Poc. It is also the shape of the thing. It is a picture of the place and the word itself. And you see the tetrarch lean down and put their hand over the symbol and it flares with light and every lamp across the city goes out. "The shape of the thing holds power, too, and your friend likely did not understand that. To touch a place of burning is to interact with the potential of it, and to learn what it is and what it could be and decide what it will be next." 
AIMEE: That makes sense. 
AABRIA: "If you expected instructions on how to fix it, then you, young one, are very quickly learning the truth of the world. There are no easy answers. There are no simple solves. And you probably, somewhere within you, know what is best. The right path to take." 
ANJALI: Tetrarch, if this place of burning is of the fire, and I am of the fire. 
AABRIA: "Yes." 
ANJALI: Is why I have been led to them? To shield them, to take the fire away, to do something. And you can just see, she's starting to turn into, like, a teenager and lose all the normal sense of Fy'ra Rai's composure. She just doesn't know what to do again for the-- And she's reverting back to ages ago when everything went down. 
AABRIA: And the tetrarch very quickly removes their hands from the symbol and the lights come back up and they rush over to you and grab you by the hands. 
ANJALI: And my tattoo starts to flare. 
AABRIA: "An important gift, all of them, important. But what is it that you want? You seek to protect, but what is it that you want?" And their pressure on your hands begins to hurt. Take one point of bludgeoning damage as they are squeezing a little harder than intended. 
ANJALI: Whoops, I forgot to do this last time, but that's okay. I never healed from the last episode. 
AABRIA: Oh god, it's been like four days. Everyone, please take a long rest. 
ANJALI: There we go. My shoulder, it still hurts. Now my hand does. 
AABRIA: Please roll a wisdom saving throw. 
ANJALI: 15. 
AABRIA: In this moment, I want to ask you, the player. What do you care about most? What does Fy'ra Rai want most? 
ANJALI: To see her family again. 
AABRIA: And as your eyes shut, wincing a little bit from the pain, you are pushed bodily back into that space where you interact between your instincts, your instincts that have led you and kept you safe this entire time. And that little bit of nudge from The Gift. And you see points of light, the five people surrounding you that you have chosen to protect, but there is that well, that gravitational pull up north, west, far away where your family lies, where your sister stands, alive, waiting for you, looking for you, calling out for you. 
ANJALI: No. She-- She-- She lives! 
AABRIA: "You would not have kept looking, kept wandering if you truly believed she was gone." 
ANJALI: How? When I saw the spot flare, do I have a sense of how near it is to where they are going? 
AABRIA: Opposite direction. 
ANJALI: Fuck me. 
AABRIA: Well, you see that their attention is split going off of what, Jesus Christ, off of what Dorian said, that's farther to the south at the very edge of the continent, but going back north towards the Scar of the Cinder King and everything you need to deal with. You are even more north of that and west of that. 
ANJALI: She is even more north of that and west of that. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ANJALI: I am transported, gotcha. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ANJALI: So it's like-- 
AABRIA: Yes, it's a magical-- 
ANJALI: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and it's definitely not in the direction that Umejii has gone in, it's north. 
AABRIA: No, opposite direction. 
ANJALI: I think she's-- I'm just-- She's paralyzed with indecision suddenly and says nothing and just looks. Okay. Who do I--? I have sworn to protect them. 
AABRIA: "And you have, you led them here to the answers that they sought, to the next choice that they will make. You have not failed them. You will not fail them." 
ANJALI: Someone is watching Opal. We encountered them in the forest. I have kept a watch over her until now. But someone else has been following her with their eyes and nothing else. One of the elves of Syngorn, I believe. 
AABRIA: "I understand." 
AIMEE: I don't-- 
AABRIA: "The thing that you are, you and your sister together." 
AIMEE: Mm-hmm. 
AABRIA: "Power, potential that you haven't realized because you have a lot of, like, rejection energy, I don't know. Yeah, see, he knows. If someone else saw it, if someone else seeks it." 
AIMEE: Why would they want that? 
AABRIA: "Why don't you?" 
AIMEE: I just want to be my own person. 
AABRIA: "What makes you think that you're not? Everyone carries so with them all of the time. Their past, the things that they ran from." 
AIMEE: It's not the same, but okay. Who's watching me and why? 
AABRIA: "I told you before, I don't have all of the answers but I can help," and they reach their hand out and you feel an energy, like a very cold egg, the albumen running over you. And then you feel a sense, a breath, a gasp, a moment of peace from deep within you as Ted finally relaxes. "That will prevent any scrying for now. Protect each other." 
ANJALI: Thank you, wise one. 
AABRIA: "Not so wise, just in charge." 
ANJALI: (chuckles) My sister lives. My sister lives. 
AABRIA: "What is your name?" 
LIAM: Orym of the Air Ashari. 
AABRIA: "Yes, that's it." And you see them look over their shoulder and a young acolyte, another one of these clerics clearly covered in regalia of the two moons, Catha and Ruidus, I'll say it right eventually. 
LIAM: I've been meaning to ask, too. What is the composition of the two moons? Are they next to each other? Do they look anything like his tattoo, by coincidence? 
AABRIA: Yeah, you look up and you see that it is a massive upturned crescent and then just above it, a little off from the orientation of your tattoo, which is a little bit more stylized. But that bloody, ruddy, tiny moon, full above it. And do you want to do anything? 
LIAM: Say again. 
AABRIA: Nothing. The acolyte comes over and hands a small package to the tetrarch who then turns and opens it and unfolds it and offers it to you. A seed. "The world is wild and many things, coincidences that cannot be explained, but I knew when this came on the breeze, that this was for you. So accept it." 
LIAM: If they are offering it, then yes, I'll accept it. 
AABRIA: And it's just this massive, dark green peach pit of a seed. 
LIAM: Thank you. Thank you. 
AABRIA: "You're welcome." 
LIAM: I'm sorry, I don't mean to be disrespectful, what am I meant to do with this? 
AABRIA: "You are an Ashari, are you not?" 
LIAM: I am. 
AABRIA: "Then make it grow." 
LIAM: All right. 
AABRIA: What do you do? 
LIAM: I'll tuck it away. 
AABRIA: Okay. And they turn and look at you all. Are you okay? 
ROBBIE: That was Robbie Daymond sighing. 
AABRIA: Oh shi-- (laughter) Sorry, it was so dramatic. 
ROBBIE: I was waiting with bated breath, watching the scene. It was the audience, sorry, sorry. Above table, I guess. 
AABRIA: No, you're good, you're good, my bad. I was in the moment. I got lost in the sauce, I apologize. "Is there anything else you would ask of me? Is there anything else I can do for you?" 
LIAM: Is there anything we can do for you in exchange for your help? You mentioned... one of the tetrarchs, your f-- 
ANJALI: Umejii. Is there anything we can do to assist her? 
AABRIA: "She is headed south across the Beynsfal Plateau. You can go help her, if you want. I am not here to tell you what to do and nothing is required. I told you what I feel you already knew." 
LIAM: I believe in returning one good turn with another. 
AABRIA: "Then I do have a request. If something is coming, if this place is meant for change, growth, destruction, discovery, whatever it is, please remember it, carry it with you. I don't want, after all this time, for this to end here and now, forgotten. You, so long-lived, please carry us with you." 
ASHLEY: Always. 
AABRIA: "That's all I would ask. I'm going to look at the stars for myself for the future and the past, I observe and I remember. You may stay with me. You may move on, out, up, away. It is you who must decide what happens next but I will treasure the time I have spent with you for as long as I have." And they move towards that device, reseat the mirror back into place and begin gazing down into it and quickly lose themselves to gazing upward at the stars. 
ANJALI: We shall go. 
MATT: Which way? 
ANJALI: Follow me. And I lead them back down the stairs. 
ANJALI: Actually, I get about halfway down the stairs and I say: It is down that way, I do have one more question. And I run back up and I quietly speak behind the tetrarch. Tetrarch, my apologies. 
AABRIA: "None required." 
ANJALI: There is one of our party. I fear they may be drawn south for the wrong reasons. I cannot let them go, but I can not hold them back. What do I do? 
AABRIA: "You are wise to fear for them. They are losing themselves to the thrall of something great and terrible. But you cannot choose for them." 
ANJALI: I know, I tried that once. 
AABRIA: "And where does it land you?" 
ANJALI: Back in the same place again. 
AABRIA: "So what have you learned?" 
ANJALI: It is a fool's-- It is a fool's errand, but I cannot help but try. Thank you. And I bow and leave. 
AABRIA: "Be safe." And they go back to gazing at the stars. 
ANJALI: I meet up with you guys and-- Shall we head back to Elam? 
MATT: Yeah, no, that was... that was intense. 
LIAM: It was a lot. 
MATT: Yeah, very intense person. 
ASHLEY: Do you know what that seed is? 
LIAM: I've never seen one quite like that, I've seen quite a few, I reckon you have as well. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. That's cool, it just came here and then they gave it to you. 
LIAM: Have to find a good place for it. 
ASHLEY: Those are special. 
LIAM: Maybe back north. GM, they said their name was-- Sorry, just so I have it for the future-- what their name was. 
AABRIA: Their title is Tetrarch. 
LIAM: Tetrarch, right. 
AABRIA: Yeah, and their name is Thrascuur. 
LIAM: Thrascuur, thank you. 
AABRIA: Now I need everyone to make a perception check with disadvantage. 
MATT: Disadvantage? 
AABRIA: Yeah, it's dark and it's foggy. 
MATT: Shit. 
AIMEE: Aw, fuck. 
ANJALI: (singing) Brutal. 
MATT: (singing) Seven. 
AABRIA: Yes. 
ANJALI: Eight. 
LIAM: 11. 
ASHLEY: Five. 
ROBBIE: 14. 
AIMEE: Two. 
LIAM: Peace. 
AIMEE: She's thinking about other things. 
ANJALI: We both are. 
MATT: TPK. 
ANJALI: Yeah! (laughter) 
AIMEE: Wait, what's that? 
MATT and LIAM: Total party kill. 
AIMEE: Oh, yeah! Reliable party killer, right here. 
AABRIA: Dorian, you believe you see a swirl of fog and some movement in it around you and that's confirmed when you see Opal's hand suddenly moves to her neck as a tiny little dart fletched in purple sticking out. I need you to make a constitution saving throw. 
LIAM: We're in the city, damn! 
MATT: So we're going north, we going south, we're going back to the fiery mountain? 
AIMEE: 14. 
AABRIA: You have one round, but you feel yourself suddenly swooning and everything gets really slow and blurred and stretched out as you reach for and grab the little dart. What do you do? 
AIMEE: I have-- I have a poison thing that I bought. 
AABRIA: What's a poison thing that you bought? 
AIMEE: Wait, remember? 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
AIMEE: Hold on. 
AABRIA: We're going to use our full vocabulary. 
AIMEE: I got a potion of healing, but first I would like to know, is it poison? Or I guess it doesn't matter, does it? 
AABRIA: I mean, make a-- Let's do a self-diagnosis, medicine check. 
AIMEE: Why not? Oh shit, six. 
AABRIA: It certainly feels like something poisonous is happening, but you don't feel sick, you just feel-- I mean, yeah, there's something. 
AIMEE: Okay, I'm going to hold onto my potion and I guess I will just look around to see if I could see where it came from or if there's any kind of clue as to who just threw that dart at me. 
AABRIA: Okay, so you're going to spend your turn this round looking around? 
AIMEE: Well... yeah, otherwise I'm just going to fucking do an Eldritch Blast on an unseen-- 
AABRIA: I need you to tell me exactly what you do. I need you to make that decision. 
AIMEE: (squeaky yell) 
ROBBIE: Did I clock this, did you say I clocked this? 
AABRIA: You saw a motion, like the fog moved a little bit. 
ROBBIE: But I didn't necessarily see her get poked or did I? 
AABRIA: If she's not going to alert the group to it-- 
AIMEE: Oh no, I want to alert the group. Okay, so I'm going to say-- 
ANJALI: We were all waiting for it, we're like, "What is it?!" 
AABRIA: I was so convinced she's not going to say anything. 
LIAM: We're all like, "Put me in coach, put me in!" 
MATT: We're over here having a conversation like: So, we're going up north, south? 
AIMEE: I could have sworn that you said that something happened with Dorian while the thing poked me. 
AABRIA: Dorian saw motion. 
AIMEE: Oh, Dorian saw motion, okay. So I'll look at this thing and I'll be like: Guys, I think something just hit me. So I'll say that and then do I have to spend my whole action looking around? Or can I look around as a thing that I do without an action? 
AABRIA: I mean, be specific on what you're trying-- 
AIMEE: Do I know who did it? Can I see the creature or a person that hit me? 
AABRIA: So if you're looking for the thing, the looking is the action. 
AIMEE: Well, fuck me. 
AABRIA: I'm just trying to figure out what you're doing because I'm about to do something fun and I'm trying to make sure you have your-- You feel self-actualized before I knock you the fuck out. (laughter) 
AIMEE: I don't even know what that means. 
MATT: That's my opening to any confrontation going forward. I'm just giving you a moment to self-actualize before I knock you the fuck out. 
AABRIA: You told me as the Tetrarch to be blunt. 
AIMEE: Okay, all right, all right. 
LIAM: Are we talking about the game? (laughter) 
AABRIA: Let's go! 
AIMEE: I'm sorry I'm taking so much time. 
AABRIA: No, you're golden. 
AIMEE: I've now alerted the group and I am going to use my action to hide behind something, I don't know what's around, but-- 
MATT: How do you alert us? 
AIMEE: I fucking tell you! 
ANJALI: What she just said. 
ANJALI: She said: Guys, I think-- 
AIMEE: Guys, I think I-- what am I missing here?! 
AABRIA: No, you're good. 
ANJALI: That was good, that was good. 
AABRIA: You're good. 
LIAM: Caleb-- Caleb, shit! Wrong campaign! (laughter and cheering) 
MATT: The [inaudible] is strong. 
ROBBIE: Three years. 
LIAM: I miss him already. Orym whips around and is looking eye-line trying to see anybody in their periphery. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
ANJALI: Likewise. 
ROBBIE: I'm-- 
LIAM: (as Caleb) Ja, okay. (laughter) 
AIMEE: Okay, what's happening? 
AABRIA: You got them. 
ASHLEY: I am going to just go up to Opal and just try to just look around and try to-- 
AABRIA: She's actively running away from you to go try to hide behind something. Are you willing to be wrapped up? 
AIMEE: Yeah, I think that she's, like you said, pretty foggy and disorientated. So I think her natural reaction is to say something and then find a place where she can no longer be hit by the dart and if Fearne is offering protection. 
AABRIA: Fearne, you wrap her up. What do you do in this heartbeat? 
ANJALI: Staff out, staff expanded and looking around and also using the staff to explore including my eyes. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
ROBBIE: In the movement, I noticed which direction it was coming from? 
AABRIA: Yeah, it was right over your shoulder and probably 20 feet behind you. 
ROBBIE: Yeah and between me and that is Orym. 
AABRIA: So you're interposed between-- You are between Opal and whatever motion, so, the fog. 
ROBBIE: I was picturing the closest person is Orym to me. 
AABRIA: Works for me, love that. 
ROBBIE: So I'm going to run over to him and I'm going to grab him on the shoulder and I'm going to say: Find them. and cast Invisibility on Orym. 
LIAM: Whoa. 
AIMEE: Whoa, dope. 
AABRIA: Dope. 
ROBBIE: Cool. 
AABRIA: All right. Dariax, what do you do? 
MATT: I'm going to go ahead and be like: Shit! I'm going to go ahead and cast Bless, I'm going to go ahead and bless Dorian, I'm going to bless Fearne and I'm about to go ahead and bless Orym, but you vanish. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: I am so bad at Invisibility. 
MATT: No, it's good! So I'll cast it on you. 
ANJALI: Word. 
MATT: So-- 
ANJALI: Bless is? 
MATT: Plus a d4 to attack rolls and saving throws. 
AIMEE: Nice. 
AABRIA: And in the moment where you run over to Orym-- 
LIAM: What I really need it for is stealth. 
AABRIA: You feel a gust of wind behind you as something makes a beeline in Opal's direction. And I-- What's your armor class? 
ASHLEY: 17. 
AABRIA: You get hit very, very hard in the ribs, and you're going to take four points of bludgeoning damage as something absolutely drills into your ribcage, trying to get to Opal around you. So I need you to make a strength saving throw. 
ASHLEY: Those are not good for me. Okay, okay, come on, come on, come on, come on. 12. 
AABRIA: You take the hit and wince. And in that heartbeat of you tensing up, you feel yourself pushed bodily away from Opal. Opal, you're grabbed, and in this groggy moment, you look around and you don't see anyone, but you feel arms and a shoulder and yourself going up and over someone's shoulder, as you lose consciousness. 
AIMEE: Fuck. Okay. So I can't do anything. 
AABRIA: Not yet. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
ANJALI: Do we see this? Can we see what is happening? 
AABRIA: You don't see any person. You saw Fearne get hit and pushed away, and then Opal gets picked up, and is flopped over this invisible point in space five feet in the air. 
ANJALI: But we can make out-- 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ANJALI: Yes, okay. 
AABRIA: So I'm going to say you have an opportunity attack as it moves through the center of the group. 
ANJALI: Yes, please. Thank you. 
AABRIA: So please make an attack roll with disadvantage because you don't see anyone. I'm going to give Orym one, too. 
ANJALI: Oh man. Why, why disadvantage? Oh, still 19. I keep forgetting I'm strong. 
AABRIA: Oh, no, you're away, never mind. Okay, 19 with disadvantage? 
ANJALI: Yeah. 
AABRIA: You're able to swing out and you connect with someone. 
ANJALI: Mm-hmm. Can I? 
AABRIA: Yeah, roll damage. 
ANJALI: That's not my damage. Where's my damage? What's your fucking damage? 12 plus three, nine. 
AABRIA: How'd that number go backwards? 
ANJALI: Sorry! Sorry, sorry, sorry, wait, no, that is not right. It is nine. 
AABRIA: Nine points of damage? 
ANJALI: Nine points of damage. 
AABRIA: Amazing. Sweet. All right. You connect with something as it scoops up Opal and continues through the darkness, and keeps going out and away. You're invisible, and I need everyone to roll initiative. This is a chase sequence, so it's going to go a little different. 
AIMEE: That's fun. Including me? 
AABRIA: Yep. 
ASHLEY: Oh no. 
AABRIA: Okay, anyone, 25 to 20? 
ROBBIE: 22. 
AABRIA: Ooh, okay, okay, okay. 19 to 15? 
ANJALI: 16. 
LIAM: Rolled low, real low. Real low, with advantage, rolled low. 
AABRIA: Oh no. 
AIMEE: Can I use my inspiration from last game? 
AABRIA: Yeah, that chapter's over. 
ASHLEY: I forgot my inspiration. 
AIMEE: Ugh, didn't help that much, but I'll take it. 
AABRIA: 14 to 10. 
ASHLEY: 14. 
AABRIA: Nice. 
ROBBIE: We're counting on you, buddy. 
AABRIA: Okay, somebody's nine to five? 
AIMEE: Wait. 
LIAM: Eight. 
AABRIA: Wait, you both got eight? 
AIMEE: No, no, no, no, I want to take that back and use my original number. Because I don't want to use my inspiration on this shit. 
AABRIA: Okay, what was your original number? 
AIMEE: One. (laughs) 
AABRIA: You know what? That's-- 
AIMEE: Perfect. 
AABRIA: That's thematically perfect. 
AIMEE: Perfect. Yeah, I love that. 
MATT: Any bonus to your initiative? 
AIMEE: What's that? 
MATT: Do you have a bonus to your initiative? 
AIMEE: I don't think so. 
AABRIA: What's the little box say for initiative? 
AIMEE: Oh yeah, plus two! 
ASHLEY: Hey! 
AABRIA: Have you been doing that wrong the whole time? 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: Vibes. 
AIMEE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ANJALI: You learn something new every day. 
AABRIA: Okay, Orym got an eight? 
AIMEE: That's a three, baby. 
MATT: The good news is you're not alone. 
AABRIA: Amazing, all right. Womp-womp squad, who got a one to a four? Three? 
MATT: Three. I rolled a one, too. 
AABRIA: Yikes. Who has the higher dex between the two of you? 
MATT: Mine's a plus two. 
AIMEE: Mine's a plus two. 
MATT: My dex total is 14. 
AIMEE: So total with the plus two? 
MATT: Just my total dex. 
AABRIA: The number. 
AIMEE: 15. 
MATT: So you're before me. I'm picking my nose over there, like: Wait, what's going on? Where'd Opal go? 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
MATT: Why are you punching? What's going on? 
AIMEE: Ooh, I love a chase. 
ROBBIE: You got six darts sticking out of your neck. (slurring) "Where's Opal?" 
AIMEE: (mumbling) "Why am I--" 
ASHLEY: "I'm very tired." 
MATT: It's like Will Ferrell in that-- 
ANJALI and AIMEE: Yes! 
ASHLEY: Oh boy, this isn't good. 
AABRIA: Okay, so. 
MATT: It's fine. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
AABRIA: All right, rules for a chase. Things are going to go a little bit differently. So on your turn, you have your move and you have one action. There's no bonus actions here. There's no reactions. And at the end of your turn, you're going to roll a d20 for a complication for the next person in initiative. 
AIMEE: Oh fuck! 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
AABRIA: All right, so first up is Dorian. Dorian, you see a slumped over Opal limply moving into the night. What do you want to do about it? 
ROBBIE: I take off after her at full speed. And I don't have-- Okay, how far away am I from floating Opal? Once I go the full 30 feet, is she far away? 
AABRIA: I mean, this person was moving their full speed, too, so right now you've maintained the 20 feet apart. 
ROBBIE: We maintain that 20 feet apart. Okay, I am going to use my handaxe, throwable, that has a 20-foot range. And I'm going to wing that thing at the center mass of whatever I think has got Opal. 
AABRIA: Okay, make an attack roll with disadvantage. 
MATT: Add a d4. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you're blessed! 
ANJALI: Bless! 
ROBBIE: Okay, with disadvantage. Hey! And then a d4, one, two, three, four. 17 plus four, and four is 21. 
AABRIA: 21 absolutely hits. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
ROBBIE: Cool. And that is 1d6 plus two. Five, seven. 
AABRIA: Beautiful. 
MATT: Nice. 
AIMEE: Way to go, baby. 
ROBBIE: I whip that thing out, it's my flute axe. I've never thrown it before. But I imagine that when I wing it, it makes a beautiful-- It almost plays a melody as it soars through the air. 
MATT: That's cool. 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
ROBBIE: Smacks into whatever's got her. 
AABRIA: Yep. So you hit into its-- You don't know what part of this thing's body, but it's stuck there, floating in the air-- 
AIMEE: Oh shit. 
AABRIA: -- as it keeps going, as it takes the damage and keeps moving. 
ROBBIE: Opal, my flute! 
AIMEE: Don't forget the flute! 
MATT: Do you have a name for your axe? 
ROBBIE: How dare you ask me something like that. I do not. 
MATT: Dariax has a name for your axe when this is done. 
AABRIA: I'm sure it's just Dari. 
ROBBIE: Nice. No name, I'm excited. 
AABRIA: Okay, I need you to roll a d20 for me. 
ROBBIE: Oh yes. You said this complicates things for the person behind me? 
AABRIA: Yep. 
ROBBIE: So is a lower d20 or higher better? 
AABRIA: Guess we'll find out. 
ROBBIE: Fuck! No, we won't, 10. (laughter) 
AABRIA: We've learned nothing! 
AIMEE: All right! (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
AABRIA: Amazing. So you take off behind the person. The next one up is actually our mysterious figure, so you've complicated it for bad guy. 
AIMEE: Nice. 
ANJALI: Yay! 
AABRIA: Who you actually see, because you're tracking both Opal's body and your axe floating in the air, as you see it try to suddenly turn and head down an alley. And it's going to skid out and slam against the wall. I need you-- no, you're-- 
AIMEE: She's passed out. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you're going to take two points of bludgeoning damage as your body rocks into a building as they turn a corner and continue to run. So this person has now wrapped around a corner, and they're moving their full speed. And what you see them do, because you are the closest in this line, you actually see them flash into being, a flurry of purple robes as they pull off a ring and slide it back on again to recast Invisibility, Greater Invisibility, as your axe and Opal disappear from sight. 
AIMEE: Oh, goddamn it. 
ANJALI: So they're around the corner? 
AABRIA: Yep. But you can hear footsteps, by the way. This is not a silent chase. Okay, next up is Fy'ra. And Fearne, you're on deck. 
ANJALI: I am hauling ass because I can't-- They are not within my line of sight. I need to get them in my line of sight. So I have 40 movement. 
AABRIA: Yep. 
ANJALI: So I am hauling ass. How far around the corner do I get and what do I see? 
AABRIA: You get around the corner, and you turn and you can hear footsteps splashing through what you imagine is this fog that's congealing into puddles. 
ANJALI: But I can't see the axe, I can't see Opal? 
AABRIA: You don't see the axe or Opal. 
ANJALI: Right, I... blast my hands together, I slam them on the floor, and I cast Thunderwave and see if that does a damn thing. 
AABRIA: I want to add one bit of information that I did unfortunately forget to mention. So you also have the option as an action to take a dash action, which is your speed again. 
ANJALI: Without using my-- 
AABRIA: But that counts as your action. 
ANJALI: So Step of the Wind would count as my action? That's normally a bonus action. That's why I was like-- 
AABRIA: Yeah, you get one thing to do. You can take the dash action up to three times plus your constitution modifier. After that, I'm going to have you start rolling for exhaustion. After a certain level of exhaustion, you drop out. 
ANJALI: But I don't really have a sense of how far ahead of me they are. 
AABRIA: Correct. 
ANJALI: Fuck, all right. In that case, screw Thunderwave. 
AABRIA: So do you double your move? 
ANJALI: I'm going to double my movement and I'm just going to catch up and keep up. 
AABRIA: Catch up with what? 
ANJALI: I'm going in the direction that I'm hearing. 
AABRIA: Okay, so you're able to close the distance and you hear footsteps, but you can't quite see what's around you to locate it. But you hear footsteps right in front of you. 
ANJALI: This way, everyone, this way! I just start calling back to everyone, so they have a sense of where we are in the fog. 
AABRIA: Perfect, roll a d20. 
ANJALI: 11. This one goes to 11. 
AABRIA: Yep, you're good. Nothing happens. Fearne, you're up. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so-- 
AABRIA: High is good. 
ASHLEY: We can't see them. We can't see her at all. Okay, so what I'm going-- 
ANJALI: But I'm calling. Run towards me because I'm closer to them. 
ASHLEY: Okay. I am going to start running and-- 
AABRIA: What's your movement speed? 
ASHLEY: 35 feet. 
AABRIA: Perfect. 
ASHLEY: Obviously. I'm just very stressed right now. 
AABRIA: You're good, you're good. 
ASHLEY: I am going to jump into Wild Shape and into a dire wolf, which gives me a little bit more speed. 
AABRIA: Amazing. Love it. 
ROBBIE: Thought you'd choose a hippopotamus for sure. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
AABRIA: (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Maybe one day. So then if that's my action, then I just-- 
AABRIA: So you move and your action was to transform. 
ASHLEY: Got it, okay. And then I'm just booking it. 
AABRIA: Beautiful. 
ASHLEY: And because of hopping into a dire wolf, I have keen hearing and smell, so I'm hoping that I can-- 
AABRIA: Beautiful. Oh yeah, the moment you transform-- What does your dire wolf look like? Paint me a word picture. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so the dire wolf is sort of silvery and the face is just this beautiful just black fur and with a silver stripe on their back, my back, I guess. And the eyes are greenish and little mossy bits on the end of the tail. 
AIMEE: Yes. 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
ANJALI: Those mossy bits. 
ASHLEY: So I'm just nose ready and eyes ready and just trying to smell for Opal and trying to-- 
AABRIA: I'll have you roll it now. Go ahead and make a perception check with your keen senses. You tell me, is this primarily hearing or smell? There's no real difference between it. That's for flavor. 
ASHLEY: Smell. 
AABRIA: Cool. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 17. 
AABRIA: Nice. Hey, Opal, what perfume are you wearing today? 
AIMEE: Oh, she's wearing I would imagine like a cedar, no, a sandalwood something, yeah. 
AABRIA: This smell of really fake, terrible cedarwood just hits you right in the nose and you snap your head, probably just a little bit to the right and a little bit past where you see Fy'ra standing. 
ASHLEY: Just keep on booking it. 
AABRIA: Yep, perfect. All right. 
ANJALI: So does she get past me? 
AABRIA: No, 35 feet of movement does not beat 40 feet of movement. 
ANJALI: Oh, I thought she changed into the dire wolf and ran. 
AABRIA: Yeah, but the dire wolf doesn't also then move. The transformation was the action. 
ASHLEY: I think probably next turn, their-- their-- my speed. 
AABRIA: Yo, here's the thing. Sexual dimorphism in animals is such an important thing that you can turn into a male animal if it's cooler. If you want to turn into a peacock, you don't have to turn into a peahen because you're feminine. Those birds suck. Be the cool one that's pretty. 
ASHLEY: Every animal is a sweet boy. 
AABRIA: (laughing) Exactly, sweet boy. 
MATT: There are a lot of dude animals that suck in the animal kingdom. 
AABRIA: True. I would rather be a lioness than a lion. 
ANJALI: I would choose a female praying mantis. 
MATT: Not even in the animal kingdoms. 
AIMEE: You eat the head. (biting noise) 
AABRIA: So anyway, we can talk about gender and what Wild Shape is at literally any other time. But the rest of you that are just beginning to take off, you're still in this central plaza. And then all of a sudden, you hear a low rumble and a creak. And you look over, and the remnants of a magical spell being cast glimmer purple as they wash over those two massive porphyry statues of the three headed meat beast, call it a Bandersnatch, as they slowly begin to come to life under an Animate Object spell, as someone else in this fight who defies being seen right now has taken their action. And there are now two more combatants in the fray. But that was their turn. Next up is Orym. Opal, you're after, and then Dariax at the end. 
LIAM: So, logical to think, then, that there's two statues come to life here in the square with us, and perhaps a caster in the area as well. 
AABRIA: Correct. 
LIAM: Well, I'm still invisible. So, Orym will grip the shield tight and try to hear anything in addition to the statues he can in the area. 
AABRIA: So your attention is primarily back with the statues and the caster? 
LIAM: Yeah, I'm saying as soon as that happened, like he was ready to start screaming around the corner. But as soon as he hears that, he just hunkers down and listens as acutely as he can. And the shield, newly-dubbed Sentinel Shield, attunes his senses. So can I attempt to hear-- 
AABRIA: Yes, please make a perception check with advantage because that's how your shield works. 
LIAM: That's how the shield works. That is a 22. 
AABRIA: With a 22, you get quiet and listen. And it takes a little extra time to tune out all of the commotion, and Fy'ra's sort of screaming, and what sounds like the snarl of a large beast around the corner. And when you hear it, footfalls not speeding up in pursuit and headed in your direction, but slinking back through puddles, ducking into the alley next to that large building. 
LIAM: And I'll immediately start running at that sound. 
AABRIA: Love it. 
LIAM: I don't know if I can get there. If I can, I'm going to try to stab at the air. 
AABRIA: All right, take a swing at the dark. 
LIAM: And I'm going use a superiority die to do a feinting attack, which will give me advantage on the attack, which I'm guessing would just make it a straight roll because they're invisible. 
AABRIA: Straight roll. 
LIAM: Come on, come on, come on. Balls. That is a 10 to hit. 
AABRIA: Unfortunately, you swing out and miss. 
LIAM: Action surge, going again. 
AIMEE: Yeah, baby! 
AABRIA: Let's go! 
LIAM: Re-rolling my halfling natural one for a 20. 
AIMEE: Woo, yeah! 
MATT: Get it! 
ANJALI: ♪ Halfling on fire! ♪ 
AABRIA: You swing out with that first swing and you feel yourself catch a little bit of fabric and the little tug as you missed a body, but now you have a sense of what it is. You've pulled this thing just a little bit off of its feet, and you swing out again and you catch something. 
LIAM: I would say because I'm using a feinting attack to mess with them, after the first attack which whiffs, I hear where they are and then go (grunts) and then swing around because I'm trying to make them dodge out of the way. So here's the fake, and then I swing around to catch them on this side. And that is a six, six damage. 
AABRIA: Ooh, beautiful. 
AIMEE: Nice. 
AABRIA: I didn't think my friend was going to get hit that fast. 
ANJALI: Well played. 
AABRIA: Tight, tight, tight. 
ROBBIE: And because he took an action, did he just reveal himself? 
LIAM: My invisibility's gone. 
ROBBIE: It's gone, okay. 
LIAM: As soon as you do a thing. 
AABRIA: And you pull it back and you see blood on your blade, and you hear a, "(yelps) You little mongrel." 
ANJALI: Oh shit. 
AIMEE: I don't like that. 
AABRIA: ♪ Stagger back into the darkness. ♪ Opal, you're up. 
AIMEE: Okay, question, do I see the person that's carrying me since we're both invisible now? 
AABRIA: That's a very good question. Shoot. Make an arcana check for me. ♪ Things I didn't consider before. ♪ 
AIMEE: 17. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you know what? You absolutely do. 
AIMEE: Oh man, I'm going to take a fucking risk and I hope it's worth it. 
AABRIA: Oh, you're falling unconscious. 
AIMEE: What? Can I not do it? Can I not cast a spell? 
ANJALI: You're unconscious. 
AIMEE: So what the fuck do I do? What's my turn for? 
AABRIA: I need you to make a constitution saving throw to shake off this-- 
AIMEE: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. I was about to fight the rules. 
AABRIA: I know, it's okay, it's okay. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Attack the rules. 
AIMEE: 17. 
ANJALI: Yeah, boo. Yeah! 
AABRIA: All right, with a 17, I'll say that you feel that wave of sleep. And then you feel something in you pushing your consciousness away from that fog. Pushing you clear and trying to interpose itself within you. 
AIMEE: Oh, god. Okay. 
AABRIA: (as Ted) "You're welcome!" 
AIMEE: Oh, I couldn't see you. I'm going to cast Word of Radiance. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
AIMEE: But before I cast that, above table top, does that damage the person if they're holding me? 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
AIMEE: Okay, great, so I'm going to do that. I'm going to cast Word of Radiance, and I'm assuming, do I have to roll for that? 
AABRIA: I'm going to make you roll with disadvantage because you're awake, but the source of your magic is now trying to body the effect that's putting you to sleep. So your magic's not as effective right now as other things. 
AIMEE: Oh, so what did you--? That was a 13, was the lowest one. 15's the highest, so 13. 
AABRIA: So you go to cast. What does Word of Radiance look like as you begin to cast it? 
AIMEE: I think in this case, she wants to, A, call attention to herself because she's invisible. So I'm assuming that that breaks the invisibility, if it's just a radiant source of light. 
AABRIA: Technically, you're a thing being carried. The rules for this I have bullshitted in a direction. 
AIMEE: I know. 
AABRIA: Yes, if this spell goes off, you can be seen. 
AIMEE: Okay. So yeah, it would just look like a big, loud, neon pink burst of light that would hopefully singe the person that is also holding me into letting me go. 
AABRIA: Now I'm going to give you a choice. Because this would have missed. But it's a point blank attack. So what's more important to you in this moment? The damage or the visibility? 
AIMEE: Oh. But the damage is not guaranteed to let me go, right? 
AABRIA: You don't know. 
AIMEE: You don't know. I think, then, fuck it, the damage. 
AABRIA: Okay, go ahead and roll the damage. But no one sees anything. 
AIMEE: The damage is five. 
AABRIA: All right. You hear a really gruff, low voice. "(grunts) Why aren't you asleep?" And keeps moving forward. 
AIMEE: Oh fuck. 
AABRIA: All right, Dariax, you're up. 
MATT: Oh, hi, yeah. 
AABRIA: That's what you get for a natural one, son. 
MATT: I know. And I see everyone and I'm like: What's going on? Where's Opal? And I see that you turned into a wolf and go around the corner. (yells) I go running. With my nice, trunk-like, squat dwarven legs that only carry me 25 feet, do I get around the corner at least, or do I not make it? 
AABRIA: I'm going to let you get around the corner so you can see down. You do the (screeching), and you can like-- Yeah, stare down the barrel of this alleyway. 
MATT: Oh god. 
LIAM: Little "Risky Business." 
AABRIA: Yeah! Your pants are gone for some reason, but you're wearing a button down. 
MATT: Weirdly on brand for him. 
AABRIA: Kind of. Kind of. 
MATT: All right, well, in looking at this view, I see a wolf. I see you, you. You're down a different alley or the same alley? 
LIAM: I'm where you ran away from. Well, mind palace. I'm behind you, probably, at this point. 
MATT: I'm not paying attention to you. And do I see a flash of light? 
AABRIA: Nope. 
ANJALI: You see my hair on fire, so you know where I am. 
AABRIA: Yeah, but no idea where Opal is. 
MATT: Shit! I am going to go ahead and use my Hat of Disguise to turn myself to look like Opal. 
AIMEE: Woo! 
ANJALI: Yeah! 
AABRIA: Oh my god. 
MATT: And go running in a different direction. Just going like, (high-pitched scream). 
ANJALI: Oh my god! 
MATT: (high-pitched) They're trying to get me! 
ANJALI: Oh my god, I love you so much. 
AABRIA: If you don't have inspiration, please take it. My god. 
MATT: That's my turn. 
ANJALI: You dumb dwarf! 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
MATT: Do I roll a 20 to see the next complication? 
ANJALI: Oh yes, please. Oh yeah, I didn't have you roll complication. That's fine, I'll let it go. Because I forgot to do it, that's on me. 
MATT: That's an eight. 
AABRIA: Ooh, yes, a thing. Hold on. As you go tearing down in a different direction from where this chase is happening, you're looking over your shoulder like, "Oh no, where am I?" And you completely bash into just a random person. Who's just like, "Ow, my god!" And just begins cussing and swearing and you get entangled with them. Please make a strength saving throw. 
MATT: You got it! 
AABRIA: Actually, no, it's going to be athletics or acrobatics check. 
MATT: Oh, I got it. That would be an 11. 
AABRIA: With an 11, this person, he's grabbing onto you to try to like, "What did you do?" And trying to pull themselves up, and you're able to extricate yourself as Opal. 
MATT: (as Opal) Don't touch me, stranger! Ew! 
AABRIA: Beautiful. 
AIMEE: Really good. 
ANJALI: You do a great Opal. 
AABRIA: All right, all right, all right. Yeah, we're back up to the top. Dorian, you're up. And the reason I gave that to you and not the next person is because it doesn't make sense because you're not running in the same direction. 
MATT: Fair enough. 
ROBBIE: You broke the rules. 
AABRIA: No, I broke them because I keep forgetting what they are. I don't know how to play D&D. 
ROBBIE: You broke the rules! So, from what I can see, have the ladies surpassed me or are they closer to Opal at this point with their movement speed? 
AABRIA: They both have movement speeds a little bit faster than you, so they're a little bit ahead of you. 
ROBBIE: So they're gaining on me. 
AABRIA: They are past you. 
ROBBIE: Right, and Orym's engagement back behind us? 
AABRIA: You have no idea what Orym's doing. He never came around the corner. 
ROBBIE: Oh okay, so he's still back there. 
AABRIA: Do you want to go look? Do you want to look as an action? 
ROBBIE: If I could see him, I would have a reason to, but if I can't see him, I'm going to keep up with the chase. 
AABRIA: You can look as an action. 
AIMEE: No, don't do it. 
AABRIA: Aren't you worried? 
ROBBIE: I am worried, that's where my instincts are. But all right, yeah, okay. I'm going to stop. I have ultimate faith in the ladies. So I'm going to stop. 
ANJALI: There's your first problem. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: I don't know, I got a dire wolf, you guys are sprinting, and you've got fire hair. 
ANJALI: That's true, we're speedy. 
ROBBIE: All right, so I'm thinking maybe they'll have this handled. 
AIMEE: But Aabria wants it so bad. 
AABRIA: Oh, no, it's okay, I've got stuff for all of you. My puppos are coming up, it's good. 
ROBBIE: Okay, yeah, I'm going to wonder-- But he was invisible, so I wouldn't, fuck, I'm overthinking this. He's invisible, so I would naturally be thinking Orym is on the chase with us, like being a bad-ass, doing his thing. 
AABRIA: I'll give you a freebie. Make a perception check. 
ROBBIE: Okay. You get what I'm getting at? 
AABRIA: Yeah, for sure, I get you. 
ROBBIE: My gut says I want to go, but I don't have a reason to. 
AABRIA: I got you, baby boy. 
ROBBIE: Perception is 14. 
AABRIA: You have heard everyone else coming up. You can hear their footfalls before they show up. And you've counted it out. First Fy'ra ran up, and then you heard Fearne, and you even heard Dariax as he came around the corner and then muppetted out in a different direction, and you never heard Orym's footsteps. 
ROBBIE: Okay, thanks for giving me a reason. 
AABRIA: You're welcome, I got you. 
ROBBIE: Okay, I'm going to let the ladies-- Save Opal and get my axe back! And I'm going to run back around the corner, full movement speed, 30 feet. Does that put me enough to peek around the corner and see what's going down? 
AABRIA: Oh yeah, you come back down. And before you even use your full movement, you see my beautiful surprise for you. Two massive, 10-foot tall, three-headed meat beasts. 
ROBBIE: And do I see Orym fighting nothingness? Fighting the air as well? 
AABRIA: There's a little-- There's something happening in the alley. You hear it, you don't see it necessarily. 
ROBBIE: Aw, shit, all right. Do I have enough movement speed to get to the meat beast? 
AABRIA: Yeah, but he's ducked into it. 
LIAM: Meat beasts. 
ROBBIE: Do I have enough movement speed to get to the meat beasts? 
AABRIA: (low voice) Yeah, I want you to have that. 
ROBBIE: Aw, fuck (chuckles). Are they clearly bad? (laughter) 
ANJALI: I mean, technically speaking, are meat beasts good? 
ROBBIE: No, all right. 
AABRIA: Do you think Orym cast Big Cool Meat Beasts? 
ROBBIE: No, I don't. And he's otherwise engaged. Everything is fucked! I'm going to run in between the two meat beasts. I'm going to run right smack in the middle of them, and I'm going to cast-- I'm going to cast-- Fuck, level two Thunderwave. 
AABRIA: Good call. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: All right. 
ROBBIE: And that's a, yeah, 12 con save. 
AABRIA: Only the one on the right makes it. 
ROBBIE: Okay, okay. 3d8. Ocho, I never roll the eights. 
AABRIA: Ooh, get in here. 
AIMEE: -- fucking dice. 
ROBBIE: Mm! (sharp inhale) Mm. Five, six, seven, eight. 
AABRIA: Beautiful. Okay, and the one that makes it takes half? 
ROBBIE: That is correct. And the one that didn't save gets pushed 10 feet-- wait, no, yes, 10 feet away from me. 
AABRIA: Sweet, you ran in between them before they had fully moved out and away from the frame of this big building. So the one that you pushed actually slams into the side of the building just a little bit. And you see this nub tail that's carved onto its butt, hits it, and chips and shatters and it falls off. So it's missing 12% of its donk off of that. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
AIMEE: Of its what? 
MATT: Donk. 
AIMEE: Dong? 
AABRIA: Donk. 
ROBBIE: Thunderclap that booty? 
AABRIA: Ew, you nasty. 
ROBBIE: That's all I'm going to say. 
MATT: There it is! 
AABRIA: Yeah! (exclaiming) 
AABRIA: Inspiration for a little nonsense. All right, roll a d20. 
ROBBIE: Mm-mm. 
ANJALI: Oh, fuck. 
ROBBIE: Who did I make this hard for? 
ANJALI: But he's in the other direction. 
ROBBIE: 19. 
AABRIA: Okay. Nothing happens for my sweet invisible friend who is going to take off and then use the dash action to go even farther. 
MATT: Shit. 
AABRIA: All right. 
AIMEE: That's the one that's holding me? 
AABRIA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, next up is Fy'ra Rai. 
ANJALI: All right, so here's what I want to do. 
AABRIA: Uh-huh. 
AIMEE: Tell us. 
ANJALI: I don't know how we feel. And then you're going to tell me what is possible. Since she's so close to me, now she's so close, I actually want to see if I-- I mean, you're huge, right? 
ASHLEY: Yeah, large. 
ANJALI: I want to see if I can jump on her back, and we can-- 
AABRIA: That's a consent thing. That has nothing to do with me. 
ANJALI: What's your speed as a wolf? 
ASHLEY: 50 feet. 
ANJALI: Your speed is 50? Her speed is 50, so I want to see if that would take a full action or-- 
AABRIA: To mount a dire? Yeah, mm-hmm. 
AIMEE: (chuckles) Good idea, though. 
ROBBIE: You better ride that wolf. 
ANJALI: Is that worth it? Because I only have an action and movement. 
AABRIA: Yes. 
ROBBIE: Think of the imagery (laughs). 
ANJALI: I am thinking of the imagery, and I'm trying to decide what's fucking sexier. Let me ask you this. If I hop on the dire wolf's back. 
AABRIA: You do not get to use your movement in her stat. That's not how that works, if that's what your about to ask. Good try, though. Love it. 
LIAM: You could fart your movement into her. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you could do a little toot, boop. 
ANJALI: If I move-- okay, math. If I move my normal amount, she will still catch up to me so I can jump on her then. If I run and hold-- 
AABRIA: You're going to run and hold your action? 
ANJALI: I can probably jump on her. Because I don't know if we're going to catch up to the dude or not. 
AABRIA: Once again, this is a consent thing. And you don't speak dire wolf. So this will be fun to see how it works out. Is that what your plan is? 
ANJALI: Yeah, so I'm going to bust a move forward. 
AABRIA: Cool, you move your full speed? 
ANJALI: And as I bust a move-- my full speed, which is 40 feet, I am going to again, perception, seeing. Can I see anything? Opal, the thingy? 
AABRIA: Are you using your action to look? Or are you holding your action to jump on? 
ANJALI: Ah, fuck me. 
AABRIA: Yeah. Welcome to my fucking chase. Oh, and on top of that-- 
AIMEE: This chase is rowdy. 
AABRIA: Yeah, I'm trying to be. As you run down, you actually see that there are barrels and things. So I actually need you to make a dexterity-- no, we'll call it an acrobatics check to navigate around it as you're continuing down. 
ANJALI: (laughs) That's a 24, we're okay. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you're fine. 
AIMEE: Yay! 
ANJALI: She's parkouring off things. She's climbing over the barrels, jumping off things. 
AABRIA: Some guy's like, "My cabbages!" As you parkour over a big cabbage thing. 
ANJALI: But I hear this galloping behind me, and I just know, I just know it's my girl Fearne. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
ANJALI: So I'm going to hold, and look back behind her, and say: May I? And that's all. 
AABRIA: Beautiful, okay, well. Go ahead and roll a d20 for me. 
ANJALI: 18, plus yeah, 18. 
AABRIA: No, there's nothing to add. Fearne, you're up. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. 
AABRIA: You hear a "May I?" (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
AIMEE: Mother, may I? 
ASHLEY: I-- I-- I look up at (laughs) Fy'ra Rai-- (barks) You know, try to-- (laughter) 
AABRIA: A woof of consent. 
ASHLEY: I try to just make my path a little bit over to her to sort of-- 
AABRIA: Yeah, for sure. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
AABRIA: Swinging out a step to make sure that you're like-- 
ASHLEY: Yeah, getting a little closer. 
AABRIA: Totally fine. 
ASHLEY: Like, yeah, you got to jump on. Let's go. 
ANJALI: Okay. 
ASHLEY: Okay, good to go on? 
AABRIA: Let's do a dumb roll anyway. Give me another acrobatics check, which I'm sure you're terrible at because you're a goddamn monk. 
ANJALI: I'm a 23. 
AABRIA: Okay, it's really pretty. It's very cool. (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Great, great. 
AABRIA: What does it look like? You tell me. 
ANJALI: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I say, "May I?" And as she runs by me, I run just two steps to catch up with her, swing one leg over, just grab a little bit of tuft of her fur, and I pat her on the side, and I go: Ride! 
AIMEE: Whoa! 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
MATT: It's like not-great CG Legolas in Lord of the Rings where he just grabs the edge of the horse and swings it over. 
AABRIA: No! (laughs) You made it uncool! 
ANJALI: I didn't have to use cables, and I'm wearing high-heeled boots! I'm wearing these, goddamn it. That's sexy. 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
LIAM: In my imagination, it's way better than that. 
AABRIA: Yeah, right? 
ASHLEY: Me too, me too. It was way better. 
MATT: I'm just being a dick. 
ASHLEY: Oh my gosh. Okay, I do have a question. 
AABRIA: Yes? 
ASHLEY: So my wildfire spirit. Where'd it go, where'd it go, where'd it go? Would that be considered-- to command the wildfire spirit, is that an action on my turn right now? 
AABRIA: Technically, your wildfire spirit go just after-- Oh, to command Mister into being a wildfire spirit will take your action. 
ASHLEY: Will take my action, okay. (grunts) I have an idea, but I need two moves on a turn. 
AABRIA: Yep. 
ASHLEY: Okay, I'm going to keep running towards the Palo Santo sandalwood smell that I can to my girl. 
AABRIA: Yeah, yeah, yeah? 
ASHLEY: And just keep trying to book it. 
AABRIA: Okay, so using a dash for your action? What's your action going to be? 
ASHLEY: It's 50 feet-- my action is if I'm somewhat close, I do want to try to take a bite attack. 
AABRIA: You're not going to get close enough, because this person used their dash to get even farther away. 
ASHLEY: Okay, dash, dash, dash. 
AABRIA: They moved more than, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, okay, I'll dash. (wide "A" sound) Dash. 
AABRIA: You dash. 
ASHLEY: My Michigander's coming out. 
ANJALI: Come on, Dasher, Dasher. Instead of saying ride, I said: Dash! 
ASHLEY: Dash! (laughter) 
AABRIA: Okay, that's enough Avatar for one day. Yeah, go ahead. 
ASHLEY: I'll dash. 
AABRIA: All right, so you dash. Go ahead and give me a perception check as you get closer. 
ASHLEY: Okay. (sighs) 
AABRIA: I'm not going to count this as part of it because you are just breathing in through your nose, and you can catch a good whiff of that. 
ASHLEY: That's a natural one. 
AABRIA: (gasping) 
AABRIA: Amazing. So in the heat of this. I mean, you know that you've gone so far. Like, what couldn't you catch? But you don't have a strong sense, especially now that this alley is more full of boxes, and maybe they climbed up on something. You don't have a strong bead on where they are, but you know you have to be in proximity just by how much you can move in a round. 
ASHLEY: Okay. (sighs) 
AABRIA: But that's your action. 
ASHLEY: That's my action. 
AABRIA: Yeah, roll a d20. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LIAM: (like Legolas) They're taking the warlock to Isengard. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Oh no, that's a one. 
AABRIA: Oh, beautiful. 
AIMEE: Buddy. 
AABRIA: Thank you. 
ASHLEY: Who's after me, I'm sorry. 
AABRIA: Oh, no, those are my buddies around the corner. 
ASHLEY: Oh, oh, oh, oh, that's a good thing! 
MATT: Yes, yes, yes! 
AIMEE: You did a good! 
ANJALI: Hercules, Hercules, Fearne-ules, Fearne-ules. 
AIMEE: Yes! 
AABRIA: So my big boys. 
ANJALI: Trip and die. 
AABRIA: It is difficult terrain. However, they're in melee with a thing to bite. So, it's not really going to affect them, as they turn. And you ran to them. And they're both going to take big old attacks at you. 
ROBBIE: But isn't one of them out of melee range now if he got knocked back? 
AABRIA: Okay, it's going to walk the 10 feet-- 
ROBBIE: Fuck! 
AABRIA: -- back over. (laughter) 
AABRIA: Even with difficult terrain, it had more than 20 feet of movement. It scootches back over. All right. The lowest one is an 18. 
ROBBIE: (blows raspberry) Both. 
AABRIA: Yeah, sweet. Oh god. 
ROBBIE: Uh-oh. 
LIAM: Oh boy. 
ROBBIE: I'm a-feared. 
AABRIA: You're going to take 16 points-- (gasping) 
AABRIA: -- of piercing damage. 
AIMEE: Oh my god. 
AABRIA: As these heads descend on you, three on each. Snap, snap, snap. 
ROBBIE: Fuck! 
AABRIA: And they just absolutely cover you. You hear the crunch and movement. I don't know if you're too cool to make an ouch sound. 
ROBBIE: No. 
AABRIA: Shit got real around the corner. 
LIAM: Was that from one meat beast? 
AABRIA: No, it was both. 
LIAM: Both meat beasts. 
AABRIA: It was combined. 
LIAM: Okay. 
ROBBIE: I am super fucked up. 
AABRIA: You're fine, this is fine. 
ROBBIE: This was a bad idea. 
AABRIA: My boys' go, and they roll. You're fine. Next up is Orym. Opal, you're on deck. 
LIAM: I do hear the sound of my friend, so I curse at the darkness and wheel around and come running back. If I can get to one, if I see one engaged with him-- No, yeah, if either of them that are engaged, whichever one I can get to-- 
AABRIA: Are you leaving melee range? 
LIAM: Yeah, that's fine, I'll risk it. 
AABRIA: Okay, cool. Does a 21 hit you? 
LIAM: It does, indeed. 
AIMEE: Fuck. 
MATT: You got this. 
AIMEE: Meanwhile, you just hit a wall somewhere. 
MATT: Yeah. 
AIMEE: (thunk) 
AABRIA: You turn and run away, and you feel a hand grab around the meat of your tricep. And a sudden burst of blinding pain as an Inflict Wounds catches you-- 
LIAM: Great, that's great. 
AABRIA: -- for 11 points of necrotic damage. 
LIAM: Great. 
AABRIA: I rolled very low. 
ROBBIE: Oh boy. 
ANJALI: Stop hurting my babies. 
LIAM: I run into the fray. And run up to one of the beasts with its fangs into my friend, and I'm going to use another superiority die and do a goading attack. I'm going to try to stab it in the eye and draw its ire on me. 
AABRIA: Yeah, make an attack. 
LIAM: I didn't roll-- Whoever, that invisible person should've taken more damage. I didn't roll-- 
AABRIA: Oh yeah, roll the extra damage. 
LIAM: -- superiority die. 
AABRIA: Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead. 
LIAM: Just one. Just one. 
AABRIA: That's not nothing, they're a caster. They're probably not made of hit points. 
LIAM: Okay, so for that attack to the beast, I rolled a 19. 
AABRIA: Hits. 
LIAM: Okay, and that's-- 
AABRIA: It's kind of hard to miss. 
LIAM: Six plus-- 12 points of damage, and it is at disadvantage if it tries to attack Dorian. 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
LIAM: Because it is now pissed at me. 
AABRIA: Okay, do you want to describe what that attack is? 
LIAM: Yeah, I run up and kick off of Dorian's knee, and then just go (stabbing), and stick it in the eye, and land. 
AABRIA: You crush and punch in this thing's eyes that are unblinking, but it makes this gravely howl as something that knows that its roughly beast shape reacts in the way that you would expect it to. And it shakes its head, one of its heads violently, and snaps. And you drop back down to the ground. As that head follows you down, it looks at you. And then the next head turns to you, and the third, and that low grumble that's more like construction than like an animal's snarl fills your chest and makes you vibrate as this thing has turned its entire attention onto you. 
LIAM: Here, boy. (sighs) 
AABRIA: Beautiful. 
LIAM: End of the turn. 
AABRIA: Okay, roll a d20 for me. 
LIAM: Nine. 
AABRIA: All right. A gift for Opal. 
AIMEE: Thank you. 
AABRIA: Oh no, no, no. It's-- 
AIMEE: I know, I know! Goddamn it, I know. 
LIAM: Feel bad, Robbie. Feel bad. 
ROBBIE: I know. 
ROBBIE: I came in to help, and I feel like I fucked it all up. 
LIAM: No, not at all. They would've come after me on my [inaudible]. 
MATT: We're not down and out yet! 
AIMEE: What can I see without looking? 
AABRIA: What do you mean? 
AIMEE: Without taking an action of looking, what can I see? 
MATT: "What can I see without looking?" (laughs) 
ROBBIE: What can I see without rolling? 
MATT: I just love that sentence. 
AABRIA: It was so metaphysical. You are just-- 
AIMEE: Which way am I laid, I suppose? 
AABRIA: You're up over the booty meat. You're looking back, and you can actually see, probably eight feet away from you, you see a massive dire wolf. 
AIMEE: Cool. 
AABRIA: With Fy'ra. 
AIMEE: I would love to cast Misty Step. So I can teleport to the back of the dire wolf. 
AABRIA: You can certainly try. Once again, you feel-- 
LIAM: That's cool. 
AABRIA: Actually, no, this is the complication. I need you to make an arcana check. 
AIMEE: Okay. Natural 20, baby. (cheering) 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
AIMEE: Not that that's helpful now. 
AABRIA: No, it absolutely is, because I was going to put your magic to sleep. 
AIMEE: Oh, thank god. 
AABRIA: You feel Ted deep within you. She's interposed herself between this magical effect and you so you can stay awake. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
AABRIA: And she is struggling. You feel inside you as she takes a knee. So close to falling to whatever this magical effect is. And she holds onto it a little longer, reaching down into the ground into that connection between the two of you and preserving it so you can cast Misty Step. 
AIMEE: Yes, okay, do I have to roll for that? Or is it just automatic? 
AABRIA: It just happens. 
AIMEE: Yes! Okay, so I have misty stepped onto the back of the dire wolf, which I'm assuming is large enough to handle both me and Fy'ra Rai. 
ASHLEY: You're a tid bit. 
AABRIA: You're great. You are, in fact, a tid bit. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
AIMEE: And now, am I not invisible anymore, because I've lost contact with this? 
AABRIA: Yes. 
AIMEE: Okay! Now who's chasing whom? (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Yes, yes! 
AABRIA: Amazing. Okay, all right, go ahead and roll a d20 for me. 
MATT: Fuck me up! 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
AIMEE: No. 
MATT: Fuck me up. 
AIMEE: That's a 10. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
ROBBIE: That's a 10. Nobody? Okay. 
AABRIA: Okay, so Dorian, you're continuing in a direction? 
MATT: At this point, after I hit the person, pushed off, I look back and gauge what's going on. What do I see? 
AABRIA: You're down a different corridor. So you see boxes and barrels. You can hear the sounds of crushing and colliding and monstrous things happening around the corner from you, where you can hear Fearne growling and bigger, snarlier, more terrifying rumbles in the ground back in the plaza from whence you came. 
MATT: Okay, I'm going to go ahead and run back towards, I guess, the more dangerous sound at the plaza, while shouting, in my best Opal impression-- (laughter) 
MATT: Great, guys, they took the decoy! (laughter) 
MATT: The plan's working! (laughter) 
AABRIA: Honestly, kind of brilliant. 
AIMEE: Oh my god. 
ASHLEY: It is. 
MATT: And using my movement to run back into the plaza. 
AABRIA: Did you copy her entire outfit? 
MATT: Oh yeah. 
AABRIA: Down to the heels that I'm assuming you're wearing? 
MATT: Oh yeah. 
AABRIA: Cool, okay. So it's that same stupid 10 where you're coming around a corner and I need to you to make a dexterity save to avoid clipping the side as you move back in the direction. 
MATT: Okay. 
AABRIA: So as you run back-- 
MATT: That is a 16. 
AABRIA: You are actually legitimately incredible in heels. You're good. 
AIMEE: Yeah! 
ROBBIE: All that time as Tharla Starr. 
AIMEE: It's that Tharla Starr practice. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ANJALI: You learned a thing or two. 
AABRIA: And you come back through-- 
MATT: It wasn't a crush that I was keeping an eye on her. I just liked her skill. 
AABRIA: -- and announce, "They took the decoy." Go ahead and make a deception check. 
MATT: All right. 
AABRIA: And I'm not going to make this part of your turn. Just how someone else is going to take it. Like my other spellcaster, who went, "What?" 
MATT: That is a... deception, 21. 
AABRIA: Oh my god. 
AIMEE: Whoop, whoop. 
AABRIA: Noted. Okay, so you ran back and yelled. What do you want to do for your action? 
MATT: Am I back towards the plaza? Do I see anything? 
AABRIA: Yeah, you're at the edge of the plaza. 
MATT: Okay. 
AABRIA: You can see-- You know what? I wouldn't call it a fight, because that would assume that it was kind of fair. You see two giant beasts and then Orym and Dorian standing between them, interacting with them. I guess it looks like Orym's fighting. It looks like Dorian's getting his full ass handed to him. 
MATT: Oh shit, how far from me is Dorian? 
AABRIA: Oh, you have to cross the plaza. It would take your full movement. 
MATT: Can't help you now. Then I'm going to use the rest of my action to dash and get up close. Can I get within-- See if I can interpose myself between Dorian and whatever the nearest creature is, and be like: (like Opal) No, I'm your target. (laughter) 
AIMEE: I love it, amazing. Roll a d20 for me. 
MATT: Okay. 12. 
AABRIA: All right. No bad effect. Dorian, you're up. 
ROBBIE: (groans) 
AABRIA: This is going great for you. 
ROBBIE: (groans) Not going according to plan. 
AABRIA: What are you talking about? My plan was to attack you with big old puppos. 
ROBBIE: That's true. How big are these stone guys? How tall? 
AABRIA: 10 feet. 
ROBBIE: 10 feet. 
ASHLEY: They're big boys. 
AABRIA: They're big boys. 
LIAM: I am 30% of their size. 
AABRIA: (laughs) Oh, buddy! 
ASHLEY: Hey! 
ANJALI: We need him. 
ROBBIE: And is disengaging my action? 
AABRIA: Yes, it is. 
ROBBIE: And it affords them an opportunity strike? 
AABRIA: No, a disengage prevents an opportunity attack. 
AIMEE: Oh, nice. 
AABRIA: That's the whole point of it. 
LIAM: But it's your action. 
ROBBIE: Aww. 
AABRIA: But you'll still have your movement. 
ROBBIE: Right, yeah. 
MATT: Don't worry. You got a healer in heels next to you. A heeler. 
AABRIA: A healer in heels. 
ROBBIE: I'm so fucked, I can't do anything. 
LIAM: Do what you got to do. 
ROBBIE: I got to help myself. I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself. 
AABRIA: So do you disengage or do you cast Cure Wounds? 
ROBBIE: (groans) Oh my god. What did they hit me for last time? 17? 
AABRIA and LIAM: 16. 
ROBBIE: Fuck you, I am going to disengage. 
AABRIA: Good call. 
ASHLEY: GTFO, yes. 
ROBBIE: And I am going to use my movement speed to get as far away from the encounter as I can. Maybe make my way to Dariax. Is he close enough? 
AABRIA: Yeah, I'm going to say that you have an opportunity to cross Dariax as you're running. 
ROBBIE: Then I'm not going to go as far away as I can. I'm just going to get to Dariax. And I'm going to give Orym a wistful look as I leave, because I feel fucking bad about bailing. And that ends my turn. 
AABRIA: Okay, roll a d20. 
ROBBIE: 16. 
AABRIA: Okay. High, it's fine. 
MATT: Just pointing out, once again, you're running towards Opal. 
AABRIA: Oh yeah! 
ROBBIE: Fuck! 
AABRIA: That's right, you're running towards Opal. Good call, good call. 
ROBBIE: How did you get away? 
MATT: What? 
ROBBIE: How did you get away from being kidnapped? 
MATT: I wasn't kidnapped, Opal was kidnapped. 
ROBBIE: You are Op-- what? 
MATT: What? 
ROBBIE: What?! 
MATT: Oh! 
ROBBIE: Oh! 
MATT: All right, there we go. (laughter) 
AABRIA: Brilliant! 
ROBBIE: Thank you for reminding me. 
AABRIA: So good. So our main invisible baddie, now one Opal lighter, is going to turn around and looks and sees you. 
AIMEE: Hi, bitch. 
AABRIA: And you hear a little (spits). 
AIMEE: Oh fuck. 
AABRIA: "Stay down this time." 
AIMEE: Wait, can I cast Shield? 
AABRIA: No, you do not have reactions. 
AIMEE: Why not? 
AABRIA: Because I said at the beginning-- 
ROBBIE: It's a chase! 
AABRIA: -- it's a chase. 
ASHLEY: Dang it! 
AIMEE: Fuck. Okay, what do I do? 
AABRIA: Make a dexterity saving throw. 
ANJALI: Come on, girl. 
AABRIA: With disadvantage because you don't see it. 
AIMEE: Oh, well, thank god. 
AABRIA: I don't know what that means (laughs). 
AIMEE: It was a 20. 
AABRIA: Oh no. 
AIMEE: 18. 
AABRIA: Nice. 
AIMEE: (relieved sigh) I shouldn't have celebrated so quickly. 
AABRIA: Why? 
AIMEE: I feel good now. No, I was saying, that could've been real bad. That could've been real bad. 
AABRIA: You hear that little dart sound. I'm going to assume you just duck behind Fy'ra. 
AIMEE: Oh god. 
ANJALI: Oh, it-- 
AABRIA: No, it doesn't hit you instead. That thing doesn't bend. It's not Wanted. 
ANJALI: Because I was also going to say I have Deflect Missiles for a friend thing. 
AABRIA: That's right, which is a reaction, which you can't use. 
AIMEE: Damn it. 
ANJALI: It doesn't matter, because you rolled an 18! You killed it! 
AABRIA: And you hear footsteps as this person continues to run away. 
ANJALI: Away? 
AABRIA: Away. 
AIMEE: Away from us? 
AABRIA: Ooh, and a one. Yeah, away from y'all. 
AIMEE: Oh. 
ANJALI: Great. 
ANJALI: So-- 
AABRIA: Hold on. Fy'ra, you're up, one second. Where is my tab? There it is. 
ASHLEY: Do we let her go? Do we fight? 
ANJALI: She's about to say something happens. 
AABRIA: Okay, so the footsteps carry away. Now you're at the end of the alleyway. And even though it's late, it's not the dead of night. It spills out into a street where you see people are walking back and forth, and wagons are being pulled. So there's now cross traffic is your complication. 
ANJALI: I mean, we've heard everything. We've got Opal. 
AABRIA: Mm-hmm. 
ANJALI: I'm going to say: Let him go. Go back to the others. Instead of pursuing him through the people, because I don't want to fuck with the people. 
AABRIA: Okay, works for me. 
ANJALI: So can I hold everything? And just speak for now and not use my movement and not use-- Because I'm on the back of a dire wolf. 
AABRIA: Yeah, for sure. 
ANJALI: She's going to move faster than I am. 
AABRIA: And I will allow if you want to use a reaction or something later. You've held your potential in reserve to do something. 
ANJALI: I'm going to hold onto my potential. 
AABRIA: Yeah, good job. (laughs) Roll a d20. 
ANJALI: 14, although it's on top of other dice. 
AABRIA: Totally fine. Fearne, you're up. No complication. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so-- Yes, I listen. Sort of huffing and growling and (snorts). Bloodthirsty. Turn around and start booking it back-- 
AIMEE: Yes. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: -- to our people, because-- (sighs) We got to-- (groans) This is tough. 
MATT: Mm-hmm. 
ASHLEY: Um, um, um, um. 
AABRIA: So my question is: Do you officially give up the chase? 
ASHLEY: Oh! Ooh, I don't want to, you guys. I don't want to. 
AABRIA: Give me a perception check. 
AIMEE: Yes. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. 19. 
AABRIA: You still smell him. You could catch him. He's not that far. And you can pick his scent out of the dozens of people in the street. If you run away now, you'll never know why she was targeted. 
ASHLEY: Booking it towards him. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Going towards the smell. 
AIMEE: Yeah, baby. 
AABRIA: Chase rules still up, let's go! 
ASHLEY: Yep, yep, yep. 
ROBBIE: Continue. 
ASHLEY: Going, going, going. 
AABRIA: With a 19, yeah, you can catch up entirely. You slide out into the street, dire wolf drift, and even though there are people around, you know exactly where this person is. You can smell the sweat and anxiety on him. You can attack. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Who wants it, who wants it? Okay. 
ASHLEY: (relieved exhale) 
MATT: You are blessed, you get to add a d4 to that. 
AABRIA: Ooh, yeah, yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay, I mean, that was pretty high. Okay, okay. That would be-- Let me pull up my wolf. 25. 
AABRIA: Absolutely hits. What do you think this is? It's a guy, he's a guy. He's a guy made of flesh. 
ASHLEY: He's a guy, he's a guy. Okay, so. What I would like to do-- 
AABRIA: So what are you hitting with? Is this a chomp? Is this a swipe? 
ASHLEY: I'm trying to just grab and knock him prone, and just get at his throat above him. 
AABRIA: So this is more of a grapple than an attack. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to attack. I want to kill this-- No, no, no, I want to! 
AABRIA: What do you want? 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, it's a grapple. 
AABRIA: I'm not telling you what to pick. I'm just saying-- 
ASHLEY: It's a grapple, it's a grapple. 
AABRIA: Are you sure? You don't want to do a chomp? You wants do a chomp? 
ASHLEY: I'm going to do a chomp. I'm going to do a chomp. (cheering) 
ASHLEY: Sorry, sorry. 
ROBBIE: That was a rollercoaster. 
AABRIA: Why are you apologizing? (laughter) 
LIAM: (car screeching) 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay. 
AABRIA: This pleases me to no end. 
ASHLEY: (growls) 
AABRIA: Make it count. 
ASHLEY: Okay, okay. That is-- math in the moment. Holy moly. 10 points of damage. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
AIMEE: Yes. 
AABRIA: Describe what the attack looks like. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so with my ladies on my back, I want to take a leap in the air to where I think he is and grab him at the back of his head with my mouth and my teeth, and pull him down. 
AABRIA: Oh yeah. 
ASHLEY: And just face maul, on the face. 
AABRIA: I like that a lot. And I want to reward you letting me goad you into doing a chomp. And you leap out for that, where you can hear the ragged breathing as this person's out of breath and was just carrying another person so you know exactly where his head is, and you grab it. And in your spin to grab and tackle and slam him down, you hear a crunch. And I know you only said you did 10 points of damage, but you heard a neck snap. 
ANJALI: Oh no. 
AIMEE: (squeals) 
ASHLEY: I'm just going to stay over him. And just drooling, above his face. Like (snarling). Just waiting. 
AABRIA: The other two of you don't see anything yet. Because the magical artifact is still doing its job. But you can see in that point of interaction, looking down over dire Fearne's shoulders, blood as it pools up and away from the invisible source and runs and drips free. And you hear sounds: a whimper of pain and gurgling. And then nothing at all. 
AIMEE: Uh-huh. (laughs) 
ANJALI: Um. I'm going to take my actions now because-- 
AABRIA: Yeah, what do you want to do? Go ahead. 
ANJALI: I leap off her back and I just smack her on the back to let her know it's okay, I get it, whatever. Don't worry about it. Well done. I tell you all of these things with two slaps on the back. 
AABRIA: Yeah! Vibes. 
ANJALI: I got you, girl. 
AABRIA: Non-verbal communication is important. 
ANJALI: And I dash back. I use all my everything to dash back to the direction of the other battle. 
AABRIA: Okay. Sweet. Yeah, you have a ton movement and with a full dash, you're able to get right up in the mix. 
ANJALI: Right up in the mix. So where-- How-- Am I around the corner? Am I-- 
AABRIA: No. If you want to, you can get all the way back to where the fight proper is happening with Orym, with one of the bandersnatches. 
ANJALI: I would like to be out of melee. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you can get as far as you want. So you can see that maybe 15 or 20 feet away from that are Opal, actually. 
AABRIA and AIMEE: (laugh) 
ANJALI: Right. 
AABRIA: Opal and Dorian. And then Orym is in melee. 
AIMEE: (silly voice) How'd you get here? 
ANJALI: And I would like to get somewhere close enough that at least those meat-- 
AIMEE: Spider-Man. 
ANJALI: -- puppets can see me. 
AABRIA: Yeah, they can see you. 
ANJALI: Statues? what are they? Meat guys? Meat things? 
AABRIA: They're not meat. They are porphyry stones, like extra hard. 
ANJALI: But we've been calling them-- 
AIMEE: Meat beasts. 
AABRIA: Yeah, meat beasts. The musculature of them would suggest that. 
ANJALI: The porphyry must meat beats. Whatever. 
ANJALI: Yeah, sweet. 
ANJALI: It's a good album. So I just want to be close enough that they see me too as a potential target to pull focus. 
AABRIA: Okay. I'm going to say that at this point, the chase is over. 
ANJALI: Excellent. 
AABRIA: And we're in normal initiative now. 
AIMEE: Cool. 
ANJALI: Wait, so did I need to use my-- Okay, never mind. 
AABRIA: I mean, you still would've had to dash to get all the way over there. 
ANJALI: Right, but that's an action and that's everything. That's a movement. Is that my movement, my action, and my bonus action if the chase is over? 
AABRIA: Since the chase is over from here-- 
ANJALI: From here. Okay. 
AABRIA: Yeah. So I will allow it, you're in normal initiative rules now. So you used your movement. Are you using Step of the Wind to give yourself extra movement? 
ANJALI: Oh yeah. I see this. Okay, so that is using-- Hey, how does this work? Why won't it show me? 
AABRIA: Who's ever played a monk before? Who could know? 
ANJALI: Bonus action. Okay, great, great, great. 
ASHLEY: Marisha! 
ANJALI: So, yes, I'm going to spend one ki point to use dash as my bonus action. 
AABRIA: There you go, and now you still have your action left. 
ANJALI: Still have my action yet. Can I hit him? Yeah. I am going to-- 
AABRIA: You slide past Dorian and other Opal. 
ANJALI: Okay, and how much space do I have between-- Where is he in between the meat things, beasts? 
AABRIA: Directly in melee with the one on the left, and the one on the right is about 10 feet away. 
ANJALI: And I am, how close? How much-- 
AABRIA: Where do you want to be? You can't be in melee with both of them. You have to pick left or right. 
ANJALI: Right. I will pick-- 
AABRIA: Orym's on the left guy. 
ANJALI: Sorry? 
AABRIA: Orym's on the left. 
ANJALI: I will pick the one that is engaging with Orym and I will-- I'm going to go into three-point hero stance and I'm going to punch the ground. And as the ground happens, sort of you see this eruption of lava come from the stones in the ground and snake up as I cast Lava Whip. 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
ANJALI: To fucking-- 
AIMEE: Whoa! 
AIMEE: Lava Whip? 
AABRIA: Whip. 
AIMEE: Lava Whip, whip. 
AABRIA: It's not a Cool Whip. 
AIMEE: No. It's a Lava Whip. 
ANJALI: There's nothing cool about a Lava Whip. So creature that I can see within 30 feet, it must make a dexterity saving throw. 
AABRIA: Oh, good. These are not dextrous. It got a natural one. 
ANJALI: Boom! 
ASHLEY: Ooh! 
ANJALI: The creature takes-- 
AABRIA: It's like, "(confused noise)." 
ANJALI: -- 3d10 bludgeoning damage. 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
ANJALI: And I am going to attempt to knock it prone as well. I shouldn't say attempt it. It gets knocked prone. 
AABRIA: Okay! 
ANJALI: 3d10. 10. 
AABRIA: No one knows what a 10 is shaped like. You're good. 
ANJALI: Five, 10. Four. So 19. And it basically wraps up around it and yanks it off its feet. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
ANJALI: It is prone. 
AIMEE: Yankity yank. 
ANJALI: Don't talk back. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Don't talk back. 
AABRIA: That got me because it was like: How do I explain? I can't talk back. (laughter) So yeah, this whip of lava comes up and slashes through. You actually shear off half of its right side and its back legs. So it doesn't just damage it, it cleaves it. So now the left guy's a tripod. And from that, it snakes around that back leg and pulls it out from under, and this thing and clatters down into the ground. It breaks the stone under your feet, but it's down and a much more manageable height for you, too. Love it. Beautiful. This thing is hurt. 
ANJALI: Excellent. 
AABRIA: It is having a bad time. 
ANJALI: I am angry. 
MATT: You, Laura Bailey, and B. Dave all have the same action economy bargaining spirit in you and I respect it so much. (laughter) 
ASHLEY: Mm-hmm! Mm-hmm! 
ANJALI: Can I buy an E? 
ASHLEY: But, but, but, but! 
AIMEE: Yes! 
MATT: I love it so much. 
ANJALI: What can I do with my action? 
AABRIA: Vibes. All right. 
MATT: Hell yeah. 
AABRIA: So my left most guy is going to spend half of-- He's prone, so he's going to spend half of his movement getting up, and he would love, love, love to do a chomp at the one that absolutely wrecked his entire life. However, that goading strike. 
LIAM: Well, it can, but it would be a disadvantage. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
LIAM: It can also eat me. 
AABRIA: Yeah. It's gonna. With a natural 19. 
LIAM: Yeah, that hits. 
AABRIA: It does a chomp right down into you. It can barely stand on both of its legs, as it just sort of-- All three faces descend on you. It's going to do nine points of piercing damage. 
LIAM: Got it. Please make a strength saving throw. 
LIAM: Ope, that's not a d20. That is a five. 
ANJALI: Aren't you blessed? 
LIAM: Nope. 
ASHLEY: Didn't you get an inspiration or something? 
ANJALI: Didn't you get blessed or something, or inspiration or anything? 
ASHLEY: Sorry, we're trying to bargain. 
AABRIA: No, you're good. I love bargaining. This is fine for me because you're going to want to as two different heads get you in a grapple, and you are lifted up off of the ground and you're now between two dogs' teeth and they're going to play tug-of-war next round. 
LIAM: Okay. 
AABRIA: All right. 
MATT: That's fine. 
AABRIA: It's fine. Okay. The one on the right that has-- It's missing a little bit of its donk, but is otherwise unaffected, is going to run forward, and yeah, it's going to attack-- Ooh, Opal? Which one? Where are you right now, by the way? Did you get in the melee range with the left guy? 
ANJALI: I don't think I did, because I was using my ranged 30-foot. 
AABRIA: Okay, so you're still back with the homies over here? 
ANJALI: I would say I'm at least 25 feet away. 
AABRIA: Okay. You're the biggest threat, so it's going to come for you, then. Does a 19 hit? 
ANJALI: Yes. 
AABRIA: Okay. Three angry, angry mouths descend on you and they do seven points of piercing damage. I need you to make-- 
ANJALI: 'Tis but a flesh wound! 
AABRIA: I need you to make a strength saving throw. 
AIMEE: But a flesh wound! 
ANJALI: 23. 
AABRIA: It tries to grab you and worry into you, but you're able to slip your body out. Okay. That's it. Next up is Orym. 
LIAM: All right, well, I use a bonus action to do-- what's it? Second Wind, and regain 12 points. 
MATT: Slick. 
ROBBIE: Whoa. 
AABRIA: Nice. 
AIMEE: Wow. 
AABRIA: Good call. Good call. 
AIMEE: That's nifty. 
LIAM: And then I'm just going to take a swing at the one that I did the most damage to that she just beat the shit out of, because I'm grappled, but I can still swing, right? I just can't move. 
AABRIA: Yes, absolutely. 
LIAM: I would have two grapples to beat. I'm not going to mess with that. That hits. That is a 23. 
AABRIA: Oh my god, absolutely. 
AIMEE: Ey-oh! 
ANJALI: Boom! 
LIAM: And that is nine points of damage. Just dragged across the face of one of the two faces. 
AABRIA: Don't describe it now. How do you want to do this? (cheering) 
LIAM: So I reach out and just drag the blade across the eyes of one of them, and see it reel back in pain, and see both of them reel in pain a bit, and swing the blade around in my hand, and just try to jam as hard as I can into the face of the other one, even though it's stone, even though it's holding me. 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
LIAM: And then hopefully get lower to the ground. Oh, ow, ow, ow, ow! 
AABRIA: As this thing, the thing that you knock out of it, you don't hit a brain. You've just sort of destroyed the magic holding it together. And the amount of damage that you've done, you push in and then you feel it give way as it crumbles. And you just slide to the ground on this pile of gravel as this thing, just sort of-- It unmakes itself around you and under you. And you just scoot down and scooch. I'll say you slide 10 feet towards your friends. Just a little, wee! 
LIAM: I will use my movement to walk it off. Walk it off. Walk it off. 
AABRIA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Vibes. 
LIAM: And put Fy'ra Rai between myself and the remaining creature. 
AABRIA: Perfect. Love it. 
LIAM: For the moment. 
AABRIA: Okay. Before Opal's up, the real Opal-- Fake Opal, Dariax. 
MATT: Yeah? 
AABRIA: Please make a dexterity saving throw with disadvantage. 
MATT: Totally. All right, let's do this. That's not good. That's a little better, but it's disadvantage. It's not good. I'm going to go ahead and use my Favored by the Gods sorcerer ability to go ahead and add... 15. 
AABRIA: You're hit by this. However, however-- (laughter) 
AABRIA: That weird sateen jacket that she wears, it's a little open on the sleeve as you see a tiny dart with purple fletching buries itself into the sleeve, but actually misses the flesh of your arm by just millimeters. 
AIMEE: Noice. 
MATT: (like Opal) Ah! (laughter) 
AABRIA: What a nightmare. Sweet. All right. Opal, you're up. 
AIMEE: Okay, so I really want to help, but I also want to know why he's chasing me, why he wanted to kidnap me. So I'm going to step off of the dire wolf, and because I can see-- What? Oh. Because I can see the trickle of blood on the whatever, I can sort of guesstimate where-- 
AABRIA: Oh, you have a very strong sense of the fact that dire Fearne's teeth aren't all the way shut. 
AIMEE: Oh. 
AABRIA: That whatever she's biting, she's got right in the center of her mouth. 
AIMEE: Okay, great. So I'm just going to guesstimate that it's his chest and I'm going to just straddle him. Not sit on him, but straddle and pull out my two daggers and go right up to its throat, and hopefully, or maybe ask, because I don't know if it can talk, he can talk, but ask: Why are you chasing me? Can he talk? 
AABRIA: Make an intimidation check. 
AIMEE: I mean, I can be intimidating. 
AABRIA: Yeah. I believe that. 
AIMEE: That's a plus five. Okay. So that is a 14. 
AABRIA: You lean in and your voice drips with anger and rage and confusion, and the emotions of all of your weeks of travel and all of your weird conversations that you're having today and everything that's inside you right now-- 
AIMEE: Just not having control over what happens to me. 
AABRIA: And you lean in and get really close with that dagger and realize you don't hear anything. 
AIMEE: Fuck! 
AABRIA: And the blood flow in that mouth, in Fearne's mouth right now, it's not flowing. It was a puncture and it stopped. 
AIMEE: So, it's dead? 
AABRIA: He's dead. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
ASHLEY: I apologize. 
AIMEE: No, no. 
AABRIA: No, it was great. 
ROBBIE: You killed our only witness! 
LIAM: That's not true. That's not true. 
AABRIA: It's not true. 
ANJALI: You're good. 
AABRIA: You did great. 
ANJALI: You did good. 
ASHLEY: I did what I wanted. 
AIMEE: I did what I said I was going to do. 
LIAM: It's D&D; I can do what I want. 
ROBBIE: Do what I want. 
ANJALI: I do what I want, whatever. Whatever. 
AIMEE: But I feel like Opal is still so fucking full of rage that she's going to take one of her daggers and fucking pierce it into that person's chest and just slide down just because she's so angry. 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
AIMEE: And can I try to do a thing that may not be possible? Whatever ring he was wearing that made him invisible, can I steal it? 
AABRIA: You know what? You didn't see a ring. 
AIMEE: I didn't see him pull it on and off? 
AABRIA: That would be in the front of him and you were over his shoulder. 
AABRIA: So you actually don't know why. 
AIMEE: Okay, but do I have any movement? I guess I do have some movement. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you still have your full movement. Did you do the stab? 
AIMEE: I did do the stab. 
AABRIA: Gross. I love it. 
AIMEE: I just fucking-- It just feels so good. And I mean, I think she's just blind with rage, actually. I don't think it feels good. I think she's just blind with rage. And then I guess what I'll do is get back on Fearne and hope, because I can't get to them faster than-- right? Then I can-- How far away--? 
AABRIA: No, you're pretty far away. 
AIMEE: Pretty far. So I can't get to them faster than she can. So I'll just hop back on her and hope that we can make it. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
AIMEE: As far as possible. 
AABRIA: Love that. 
MATT: Filet by Opal. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
MATT: It just feels so good. (laughter) 
MATT: Black and white commercial. 
AABRIA: She nasty. 
ANJALI: That perfume actually smells like sandalwood. 
AIMEE: Yes, it does. 
MATT: Perfect. 
AIMEE: Sandalwood with a little blood. 
AABRIA: Yeah, just a little. Just notes. 
LIAM: I like the visual of Opal with her pink outfit and your iridescent hair and just dark blood's going (spurts). 
AIMEE: Yeah, oh, for sure. It's like-- Maybe it was a two-hander. 
AABRIA: Here's the problem, is spray implies pressure. There is no longer blood pressure. So what you get instead is as you rip through, you just feel globs of congealing blood, much thicker and more viscous than you'd ever expect. Just wells up in your hand as you pull through. 
LIAM: Now you got to do this. 
AIMEE: Oh yeah, just a-- 
LIAM: Or not. (laughter) 
ROBBIE: I'm more and more concerned with every description. 
AABRIA: You know what, this is so gross. I'm sorry, make-- 
AIMEE: Just pulls it out. What? 
AABRIA: Now I want you to roll to find the ring because you're freaking me out. I like this. 
MATT: (laughs) 
AABRIA: I'm picking up everything you're putting out now. 
AIMEE: She pulls it out. There's all this blood. 
AABRIA: Give me an investigation check. 
AIMEE: Oh, 19! Plus? You said investigation? 
AABRIA: Yeah, it's going to be a disadvantage because he's invisible. Oh, well, I mean, I rolled the 19 plus three. So that's 22. 
AABRIA: Did you roll with disadvantage? 
AIMEE: No. (laughter) 
AABRIA: I said that, right? 
AIMEE: You added that at the end. 
AABRIA: Okay, assume that stuff-- 
AIMEE: 17. 
AABRIA: -- interacting with the body requires-- Yeah, a 17's still good. 
AIMEE: It's still good. 
AABRIA: So you pull through and realizing that there has to be some sort of thing that was making him invisible. Once you cut the body, you had a really good sense of the anatomy and you're able to trace back up across the torso, down the arms, and I'll let you get that ring. You pull it free and there is just a corpse of a man with his head just lost. 
AIMEE: What does he look like and what is he wearing? Can I ask? 
AABRIA: You don't know what his head looks like because it's inside Fearne's fucking mouth. 
AIMEE: That's fine. 
AABRIA: And he's wearing all purple robes. 
AIMEE: Do I recognize that from the elf encounter? 
AABRIA: Yes, you do. 
AIMEE: Okay. Those bitches. 
AABRIA: Sweet. 
AIMEE: Now I got the ring. And then I jump, I hop back on her and hope that we'll make it back fast-- 
AABRIA: Vibes. Dariax! 
MATT: Oh, right. Okay. 
AABRIA: (laughs) So Dorian's right in front of me looking-- 
ROBBIE: Fucked. 
MATT: Fucked, okay. 
AABRIA: Fine. You're fine. 
MATT: And I watch one of these living multi-headed statues crumble, but the other one's still standing and ravaging around. I'm going to be like: All right. (high-pitched) Okay, I'll get you. (laughter) 
MATT: Help me, Ted? (laughter) 
AIMEE: You're wrong for that. 
MATT: I'm going to go ahead and use-- 
AABRIA: It's uncanny. It's like a mirror. 
MATT: Yeah, isn't it? 
ANJALI: It's so good. 
MATT: I'm going to use two sorcery points to use Quickened Spell metamagic, to turn his Cure Wounds into a bonus action. So he's going to cast Cure Wounds at level two to you. Go out and touch your shoulder and heal you for-- nice. 14 points. 
ANJALI: Back! Back in the game. 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
AIMEE: Oh, poor guy. 
MATT: Don't mention it. And then with my action be like: And also fuck this guy! And I'm going to cast Sacred Flame as my action. 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
MATT: So he has to make a dexterity saving throw. 
AABRIA: I got a five. 
MATT: That's a fail and he takes one whole radiant damage. 
ALL: No! (laughter) 
AIMEE: Pew, pew, pew. 
MATT: Wait. Why not? I'm going to use my third sorcery point, to use Empowered Spell, where I can spend the sorcery point to reroll up to three damage dice. 
AABRIA: Please, yes. 
AIMEE: Please kill this-- 
MATT: Eight points of radiant damage. 
ALL: Yeah! 
ANJALI: That is a much better number. 
AABRIA: Nice. Call your shot. Where'd you hit it? 
MATT: All right, so after healing him, I look over and see it and really focused on it for the first time, I went (screams) and just release the bolt. I'm going to say, ah-- 
AABRIA: It's got several heads. 
MATT: Not even going to go for a head. Is there anything in the genital area? 
AIMEE: Yes. 
AABRIA: I cannot imagine a enlightened civilized culture that doesn't add-- 
ANJALI: Anatomically correct. 
ANJALI: Some situation down at the bottom, yeah. 
MATT: That situation is now in radiant flame. And he giggles to himself. (giggles) Burned its junk. 
AABRIA: Amazing. All right, back up to the top. Dorian. 
ROBBIE: Oh, wow, I feel better. Thank you. I think I'm going to avoid a fistfight with the giant flaming cock rock man from now on. 
MATT: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: All right. I am going to keep my distance and I'm going to cast Dissonant Whispers at level one. 
AABRIA: At? 
ROBBIE: At the remaining rock guy with the flaming penis. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
ROBBIE: And that is a 12 wisdom saving. 
AABRIA: Okay. Surprising literally no one, it's not very wise, in that it's rocks that move. (laughter) 
AABRIA: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do I be mean? This is not technically a creature. 
ROBBIE: Oh! Oh, good point. 
AABRIA: This is a construct. 
ROBBIE: Oh, okay. 
AABRIA: Nah, I'm going to let you have it. Go ahead. It can understand a language. 
ROBBIE: All right. 
AABRIA: Get it. 
ROBBIE: Oh, eight, 13. 
AABRIA: Beautiful. 
ROBBIE: For psychic damage. And it must immediately use its reaction, if available, to move as far away as speed allows from me. 
AABRIA: Perfect. 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: Its back is up against the wall of this building. And what visions did you put in its head? Why is it so scared of you right now? 
ROBBIE: I think that was the strange part, is that all of the mean and nasty things that I tried to put in his mind, I felt like there was nothing there, but it was like a receiver and it was going somewhere else. So its reactions weren't-- It didn't feel like a creature. It felt like it was just an amplifier or something bouncing that reception somewhere else. So I don't know why it's scared. Its fear seems to be coming from somewhere else. 
AIMEE: Interesting. 
AABRIA: Make an arcana check for me. No, no, no, no, no. Just give me a roll with your spell attack. 
ROBBIE: Like the one I just did? 
AABRIA: Yeah. Act like you're casting a spell right now. So what's your spell attack modifier? 
ROBBIE: I don't have a single non-saving-- 
AABRIA: No, it's okay. 
ROBBIE: The modifier? 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Plus two is the modifier. 
AABRIA: It's with your proficiency though, also. So there should be a little number over your spell. There's save DC. 
LIAM: Yeah, tap "Magic." 
ROBBIE: Oh, I only have save, so it's 12. I don't have any-- 
MATT: The spell attack modifier doesn't include the proficiency bonus, I don't think. 
AABRIA: Okay. All right. Go ahead and roll add plus two. 
ROBBIE: What do I roll? I'm sorry. 
AABRIA: No, you're good. Just give me a d20 roll plus two. 
ROBBIE: Plus two. Okay. 19 plus two, 21. 
AABRIA: Yeah, there we go. We got there anyway, it didn't matter. 
MATT: Didn't matter. 
AABRIA: And you push through and you notice this weird feedback. The fact that it's bouncing off of the inside where a mind would be, but is not. But Dissonant Whispers has to go somewhere. It has to reach something, you cause something fear. And you feel that the source of that fear, you feel it bounce off and away and not reflected back at you, but into the alley beside you at something retreating, and you get a little glimpse of the fear that you caused. You didn't put new fear there, but you get a reflection back of what she fears. And you feel that she's panicked that all might be lost if she can't get her hands on the girl. And now you have a mental bead on the other assailant as she's retreating. 
ROBBIE: All right. 
AABRIA: Okay. Anything with your bonus action and movement? 
ROBBIE: I haven't moved. 
AABRIA: You haven't. 
ROBBIE: Oh, I feel better. Do I have to pass by our surviving guy to get to her or to whatever that-- 
AABRIA: No, it's moving back and away from you, so it's not in melee range. 
ROBBIE: Let the chase continue. 
AIMEE: Yeah! 
ROBBIE: I'm going to go after, yeah, yeah. Full movement speed straight at her. 
AABRIA: Okay. Okay. 
AIMEE: Yes. 
AABRIA: You head out into the darkness and take off behind her. 
AIMEE: Dorian's getting a kiss later from Opal. (laughing) 
MATT: Which one? 
AIMEE: Maybe that Opal! 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
ROBBIE: Put them in a lineup. 
AABRIA: Amazing. 
ANJALI: Six of one, half dozen of the other. 
MATT: Could be Lucky Pierre if the day goes well. 
AABRIA: Fy'ra, you're up. 
ANJALI: Okay. So remaining duder is up against the wall? 
AABRIA: Yeah, he's backed up, scrunched against it and trying to push back and you actually see the building is splintering and giving away as this thing is trying to push itself back into the civic center. 
ANJALI: And I see Dorian run down the corridor as well. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you see him turn and he moves off to the side and starts running around the building. 
ANJALI: I should save the building, but I want to chase the baddie. 
AABRIA: You know what building this is, right? And you know who's on the roof. 
ANJALI: Fuck me. Yeah, I'm going after it. So I am going to-- Fuck, and he's made of stone. So fire probably doesn't do anything. 
AABRIA: Are you saying fire doesn't do anything? 
ANJALI: Yeah, to stone. 
AABRIA: You absolutely shit-wrecked the other one with the lava whip. What are you talking about? 
ANJALI: That was lava-- Lava Whip is bludgeoning damage, remember? We discussed. 
AABRIA: It's a hot boy, though. 
ANJALI: All right. 
AABRIA: Fire works. 
ANJALI: Let's do it. Great. Then in that case, I'm going to bust a move up to this dude, hands straight out and blast them with Burning Hands. 
AABRIA: Okay. (scoffs) 
ANJALI: Which is dexterity. 
AABRIA: Once again, not dexterous. Does a 10 make it? 
ANJALI: Nope-rah! 
AABRIA: Cool, cool, cool, cool. 
ANJALI: I get to do, because I'm the level I am, a lot more damage than I did before. 
AABRIA: Let's go. 
AIMEE: Yeah, baby. 
ANJALI: Which is really not that much. (laughter) That's okay. It's still 13. 
AABRIA: Oh my god. That's not nothing. This thing is shattering apart, splitting at the seams. You can see the fire of your Burning Hands moving into the crevices of it, filling it up. Porphyry is a stone that looks like you can see other rocks inside it. So it's already this interesting mix and collage of a thing. And now there's bits of bright flame within it, too. It's still up, but barely. It is hurting. 
ANJALI: Okay. So that was my action. 
AABRIA: Uh-huh. 
ANJALI: Let us see what I can do as a bonus action. I actually have an unarmed strike as a bonus action. 
AABRIA: You're going to punch a rock? 
ANJALI: Huh? 
AABRIA: You're going to punch a rock? 
ANJALI: I'm going to fucking grab my staff. 
AABRIA: That's not unarmed. 
ANJALI: According to my monkness, using the martial-- 
AABRIA: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. You're good. I forgot. 
ANJALI: My monkness. It's not highness, it's monkness. My holy monkness. 
AABRIA: Get it. 
ANJALI: Um. 
AABRIA: Woo! 
MATT: ♪ You get caught up in the ♪ 
ANJALI: So that's 17 plus four plus six. I'm pretty sure-- 
AABRIA: It's a million to hit. Yes, good. 
ANJALI: And let's do the d6. Five. 
AABRIA: Oh my god. This thing is up, but oh god, barely. 
ANJALI: Now I'm pissed. Die! 
AIMEE: Yes! 
MATT: (laughs) 
AABRIA: And the middle head leans down to your eye level and snaps at you. And as its mouth opens, it reminds you for half a heartbeat of Mister with that flame burning inside of it. But you know that fire that you put there is tearing it apart. It's not fueling it. These are the death snarls of a construct about to return to oblivion. 
ANJALI: Can I yell? Can I yell any more at my friends, since I haven't talked to them? 
AABRIA: Yeah, you're good, you can talk. 
ANJALI: I'm going to be like: Follow Dorian. I have this. 
AABRIA: Okay. Fearne, you're up. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
AABRIA: You got guy in your mouth, bleh. 
ASHLEY: So. 
AIMEE: And a bloodied Opal. 
AABRIA: And Opal is a full nightmare on your back. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I feel like, you know, my maw on the face, a corner of my eye just watching Opal. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Knife, blood, yep. 
ASHLEY: Okay. Trying to see where everything is. So Opal and I, are we in an alleyway? 
AABRIA: You've actually appeared, you've popped back out to another side of the street. You moved through the alley. 
ASHLEY: That's right. Because we were with people, so people can see us now. 
AABRIA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, you know what, alley's pretty clear. They're like, "Uh-- ♪ Do, do, do, do-do, do-do ♪" Turn around. Fuck right back off into the fog. 
AIMEE: You see nothing. 
AABRIA: No snitch energy in this city. 
AIMEE: No. 
ANJALI: Nothing to see here. 
AABRIA: Not me, couldn't be me. 
ASHLEY: Maybe hearing Fy'ra? 
AABRIA: Oh, 100%. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
AABRIA: Not even going to make you roll for it. 
ASHLEY: Do we spot Dorian anywhere? 
AABRIA: I'm going to say you're going to have to use movement to get back into the plaza. 
ASHLEY: Humdinger. Okay. I-- Oh, boy, oh, boy. Okay, so what I would like to do, I think, in dire wolf mode-- 
AABRIA: Yep. 
ASHLEY: I want to, like a proud boy with his new toy that he killed, I want to drag the body. 
AIMEE: Yes! 
ASHLEY: Still keep his head, lift him up, and then drag him into the alley, and go towards Fy'ra, because, here's the thing about Wild Shape that I don't quite understand yet. 
AABRIA: Yeah, for sure. 
ASHLEY: Intelligence-wise, do you take on whatever creature you-- 
AABRIA: It's really nice, you actually get to pick whatever's higher, so, if you're not very smart, yeah, you can use the better stats between the two. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so, mine is a little bit-- 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay, so I'll still-- 
LIAM: I recall that confusion in Campaign Two, because we're all like, "Great, I'm smart," Nope, no, you're not. You're not a druid. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, I remember, yeah. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Okay, that's the thing about druid. 
AABRIA: Polymorph makes you stupes. Yeah, druids get to retain their intelligence. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
AIMEE: Very cool. 
ASHLEY: I'll take us into the alleyway just to get the body out of the-- 
AABRIA: Very kind of you. 
ASHLEY: Leave it in the alleyway, and then, how close are we to-- 
AABRIA: What's your dire wolf movement? 
ASHLEY: 50 feet. 
AABRIA: You can get all the way back through the alley, and halfway through the plaza. 
ASHLEY: How close are we to Fy'ra? 
AABRIA: Fy'ra would've had to move to get up in melee range, so I'm going to say you're probably another 40 feet away to get all the way up to her. 
ASHLEY: In addition to-- 
AABRIA: Oh, hold on, rule of cool is my biggest one, and I don't care about tactical stuff because there's not a fucking map here. Do you want to be there? Be there, just be there. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, let's be there. 
AIMEE: Rule of cool. 
ASHLEY: Let's be there. 
MATT: Hell yeah. 
ASHLEY: Let's be there, let's be there. 
AABRIA: You pick up speed, and you cross the plaza. You get right next to Fy'ra, who's standing at the base of this massive beast that's a little bit bigger than you as it's shattering apart and snarling. What do you want to do? 
ASHLEY: Okay, finally dropping the head of the guy at Fy'ra's feet, like, "Look what I brought you." 
ROBBIE: You're galloping full speed through the alleys with a body in your-- 
AIMEE: Fuck yes, baby! 
AABRIA: See, and that's why rule of cool is important. 
ANJALI: Rule of cool. 
AABRIA: Oh god. 
ANJALI: Come on, we rode a dire wolf, come on. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, man. 
ANJALI: Let us have our gifts, let us have our toys. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, okay, and then take a bite attack on the creature. 
AABRIA: Yeah, get that hot boy with your teefes. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, little teefie bite. Oh, that's pretty good. Okay, so pack tactics, if I'm within five feet, I have advantage on an attack roll. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you do. 
ASHLEY: That's pretty good. Come on. Okay, so that would be 16. 
AABRIA: Oh, yeah, absolutely hits. 
ASHLEY: Okay, great. 
AABRIA: It's a big stone thing. Its armor class is so low. 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
LIAM: Those baby teeth dice. 
ASHLEY: I know, baby teeth. 
AABRIA: I don't like that you called them that. 
LIAM: Well, that's what they look like. 
AABRIA: That makes me uncomfy. 
ASHLEY: They're made out of human teeth. 
LIAM: They are this big. 
AABRIA: Wait, what?! 
ASHLEY: No. 
AABRIA: Oh god. I was going to go home. 
AIMEE: You were like, "Bye!" 
AABRIA: We're hanging out late. I'll leave in the middle. 
ANJALI: What's this magic thing? 
ASHLEY: That is 12 points of damage. 
AABRIA: How do you want to do this? 
AIMEE: (gasps) Yee! 
ASHLEY: Okay, so drop the head, and then-- or drop the body, rather. 
AABRIA: Hold on, you get to specify how much. You were running at full speed with meat. 
AIMEE: Oh yeah. 
AABRIA: Did you come back with the whole body? 
ASHLEY: Yes. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
ASHLEY: That was the plan. 
AABRIA: Hold up, I'm going to make a constitution save for a corpse. 
ASHLEY: I'm going to let you decide. 
AIMEE: Wait, I need a picture of this. 
MATT: Few plans survive contact with a meat-flailing corpse in your mouth. 
AABRIA: I rolled very low for the constitution save of the body, and with the run, I think it just hit, it hit, and then you felt it get 130 pounds lighter, and you-- (spits) and it's just a head. 
ASHLEY: It's just the head. 
AIMEE: Yes! 
AABRIA: It's just the head. 
ASHLEY: Okay then. 
AIMEE: Ooh, I love it. 
ASHLEY: So slinking, shoulder blades out. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Getting up to this creature, and then just taking a running leap, and into the throat, another throat bite at whatever this, you know. 
AIMEE: She's going to taste. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, tasty. 
AABRIA: You staying on for this? 
AIMEE: I think I've hopped off for this. I've hopped off. 
AABRIA: Yeah, probably a good call. 
AIMEE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
AABRIA: Because what you feel as, all of a sudden, all of the muscles under her fur tense up in this predatory moment, and you're like, "This isn't where I parked." 
AIMEE: It's time to go. 
AABRIA: Yep, you just-- 
ANJALI: The power of suggestion is so strong, and you're so gory right now that I looked over at you, and the flowers on your dress, I looked at them, and I was like, "She's got blood." (laughter) 
ANJALI: She's going for blood. 
ASHLEY: (poofing) Ah! 
AABRIA: Fy'ra, you see the shadow come over you as this massive dire wolf eclipses you from the bits of that weird gray-gold light as it leaves around you, as you sink down and pounce up on it, your entire body flings onto this thing that's only a little bit bigger than you, but paws wrap around with that human memory of what grabbing, and tackling, and holding is, and you're clawing at it with your back paws, and ripping it apart under your feet. And as you scrabble up, you're ripping the other heads away, just locked in on the throat of the main head, and then your body suddenly, you feel a snap, your second one for the night, as you drop back down onto the rubble with Fy'ra behind you, so you didn't fall and hit her. 
ASHLEY: I turn around look at her, and (pants). 
AABRIA: And you drop this large, burning, molten, nearly-molten rock out of your mouth as you had ripped the throat out of this beast, and it returns back into a pile of gravel. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
AABRIA: Heck yeah. 
AIMEE: You did that. 
ANJALI: Well done. 
ASHLEY: (barks) (laughter) 
AIMEE: Woof! 
ASHLEY: Okay. 
AIMEE: So. 
AABRIA: All right. 
ASHLEY: I feel like that's it. 
AABRIA: Orym, you're up. 
LIAM: That thing's dead, I start booking after Dorian. 
AABRIA: Okay. 
LIAM: Who has chased after an invisible person. I will use my movement to get probably around the corner. What do I see as far as Dorian? 
AABRIA: You see Dorian sprinting into the fog, but you don't necessarily-- you see wisps of fog where a person has moved through, but you don't see a person. 
LIAM: All right, fuck it, I'm just going to streamline this move. I'm going to use my action to dash, and then get up to pace with Dorian, and run with him after whoever this person is, and that's the end of my turn. 
AABRIA: Okay, all right. Opal, what do you do? 
AIMEE: How far am I from them? If I'm standing next to the dire wolf, how far am I from these two? 
AABRIA: You have to go out, around the building, around the corner. 
AIMEE: I'm saying, I guess, the distance, will I make it? Will I catch up to them? 
AABRIA: What's your movement speed? 
LIAM: 30. 
AABRIA: And you did a full Dash? 
LIAM: Yeah, I went 60 feet. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you're going to have to use your full movement to catch up, and that'll be your-- 
AIMEE: Not even halfway there? 
AABRIA: No, if you sprint, and if you use your movement and the dash action, you can catch up to them. 
AIMEE: How about this? What if I-- Okay, so here's what I want to do. I'm going to grab the fucking head, because I'm so angry. So I'm going to grab it by the hair-- 
AABRIA: You have to walk up to go grab the head. 
AIMEE: Sure. I'm going to grab the head, and then I'm going to use my full movement, and then Misty Step again, and that's 60 feet, right? 
AABRIA: I'm going to say you're going to have to use your movement to get-- Because you're going to-- What you're proposing-- 
AIMEE: I thought I was next to the head. 
AABRIA: Well, what you're proposing is a blind Misty Step into an alley you haven't seen. 
AIMEE: Oh, okay, okay. Okay, so then, what I'll do then is that-- I'll use the dash action. 
AABRIA: No, no, no, I'm just saying, use your movement to get eyes down the alleyway, and then you can Misty Step to catch up. Does that makes sense? 
AIMEE: Yeah, but if I hold my Misty Step, can I do a cantrip as a bonus action? If I do the dash? 
AABRIA: If you hold, you're holding everything. 
AIMEE: No, no, sorry. So let's say that I don't do the Misty Step, and I use my full movement plus a dash, could I still use a cantrip as my bonus action? 
AABRIA: Yeah, only if the cantrip is a bonus action spell. 
AIMEE: Let me check. 
ROBBIE: Are we in chase rules now again? 
AABRIA: I was going to resolve something at the end of this round. 
ROBBIE: Oh, okay. 
AABRIA: So the answer is not quite yet, but maybe. 
AIMEE: Oh, fuck, well, Misty Step is a bonus action. Here's what I want to do, and you'll tell me if it's possible. 
AABRIA: Yep. 
AIMEE: Okay? I'm going to tell you what I want to do. I'm going to pull one-- I want to pull a Fy'ra Rai. 
AABRIA: I mean, you got to do it. 
AIMEE: Here's what I want to do. 
MATT: Yeah. 
AIMEE: I want to get close enough to this invisible creature where I could cast Druidcraft on it, so that maybe there's something that will make out its shape, like maybe a small cloud with rain, or, you know, something that we can make out what its shape is. 
AABRIA: Ooh, the bending you're doing. 
AIMEE: That's what I would like to do. 
AABRIA: The juice you are extracting. 
AIMEE: That's what I would like to do! 
AABRIA: Hilarious. Now, rule as written, this is not an offensive cantrip. It does little dumb shit. 
AIMEE: No, that's fine, yeah. 
AABRIA: However, if you are going to spend the entirety of your turn to try to get in and line up a shot of Druidcraft that doesn't do damage on someone you can't see. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: I will allow you to make that attempt. 
AIMEE: Okay, I'm going to make the attempt. 
AABRIA: I love stuff. 
AIMEE: I'm going to make the attempt, and I have the head in my hand. 
AABRIA: You've grabbed the head. 
AIMEE: I want this person to see me with this fucking head in my hand. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
AABRIA: Yeah. Vibes. So you run. 
ASHLEY: Witness me! 
AABRIA: Run. 
MATT: Straight up. 
AABRIA: So movement, dash, you're now-- 
AIMEE: Yeah, movement, dash. 
AABRIA: -- caught with Orym and Dorian. 
AIMEE: Yep. 
AABRIA: And now, you're going to try to line up a-- What do you want it to look like if you can cast something that will outline? 
AIMEE: Would outline? I mean, what's something that could outline? Because the fog's not really doing it, right? 
AABRIA: I mean, the fog, you're just seeing like (whoosh). Good, that's a fucking description. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: You're seeing fog move. As a person moves through it, but it's not really giving you a clear outline. 
AIMEE: Would rain do it? Or would-- I can't think of another weather event that could do that. 
AABRIA: Uh-huh. 
AIMEE: A sandstorm? 
AABRIA: It's a cantrip! 
AIMEE: Okay, fine. Just a small cloud. Small cloud, but it's rain. 
AABRIA: You can make a little flower or something, like a little mushroom just, boop, up on her head. 
AIMEE: Oh, well, let's do that. 
AABRIA: Yeah, that's a stupid thing. I'll allow that. 
AIMEE: Oh, all right, let's do that. 
ASHLEY: Yes, yes! 
AIMEE: A flower. Sorry, this is taking so fucking long. 
AABRIA: No, you do not apologize! 
ASHLEY: Do not, do not. 
AIMEE: Okay. 
AABRIA: This takes as long as it needs to take. 
AIMEE: You know what? I want it to look like a dart, even though it doesn't cause damage, I want it to look like one of their fucking darts. 
AABRIA: I like that. A little enoki mushroom dart. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
ANJALI: Hey! 
AABRIA: All right, I need you to make a spell attack roll with disadvantage. 
AIMEE: Oh no. Aw, two. 
ASHLEY: (groans) Aw, dang it. 
ANJALI: It would have been beautiful. 
MATT: It was a worthy endeavor. 
ROBBIE: Yeah, yeah, yeah, good try. 
AIMEE: I mean, come on, cool-- What is it? Cool's rules? 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ALL: Cool's rules. 
AABRIA: It's like the shitty reboot of Blue's Clues, yeah. 
ANJALI: Got cool's rules. 
AIMEE: Cool's rules! 
AABRIA: So you attempt to throw-- You know what? Cool's rules. 
AIMEE: And she's so mad, you know, it helps. 
AABRIA: She's so mad, and I don't care about a stupid mushroom. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: So yeah, do you yell anything to get her attention? 
AIMEE: Yeah, I go: Hey! in, like, the most intimidating voice I could muster. 
AABRIA: Yeah, I guess that'll do. She's not going to turn for "Hey." Do better. 
AIMEE: Oh, how about this? Oh, I mean, if I really want to insult someone-- 
AABRIA: Let's go. 
AIMEE: I use the C word, but I won't do that on this family show. 
AABRIA: See you next Thursday, let's go. 
AIMEE: I'll be like: Hey, see you next Thursday, but I've actually said the whole thing, the real thing. 
ASHLEY: Oh my god. 
ROBBIE: Perfect. 
AIMEE: But I say it in Elvish, because I speak Elvish. 
AABRIA: There you go. 
AIMEE: Bye. 
ALL: Yeah! 
AABRIA: And with that, yeah. 
AABRIA: You see that little, stupid enoki mushroom in her right shoulder. You see it turn. 
AIMEE: It sounds better in Elvish. And I'm just dripping with blood, and then there's also blood coming off the thing, and I'm like (growls). What do you want? 
AABRIA: Okay. 
AIMEE: That's it. 
AABRIA: All right, I liked that a lot. 
ANJALI: Yay! 
AABRIA: Dariax! 
ROBBIE: That was a lot. 
AABRIA: Cool, it's weird. What do you want to do, Other Opal? 
AIMEE: Other Opal watches original Opal run by, covered in blood, holding a severed head. (laughs) And takes a moment to process. 
ASHLEY: I love the (panting) "What?" 
MATT: Yeah. As I'm trying to catch up, following after Dorian runs off, and, I mean, you know, following his lead, and, you know, Orym just darts by, too, on his little dwarvish legs, trying to keep up. Opal rushes by. He's like: Uh! Other not-real Opal went crazy! (laughter) 
MATT: Just tries to catch up around the corner to see what's even happening. 
AABRIA: Yeah, you see Orym, Dorian, and a Kill Bill nightmare holding a severed head shouting into the darkness, and because she's turned around, you can see just the very tip of a little purple enoki mushroom. That's it. 
MATT: I would say that my passive perception, I probably don't even see the mushroom. 
AABRIA: Yeah, that's fair. I was going to give that to you, but-- 
MATT: No, I appreciate that. With the mist? 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
MATT: Nah. 
AABRIA: Yeah, they are just shouting and staring into darkness. 
MATT: Not that there's anything I can do about it. I go: (pants) Everyone okay? Glance around and look at the three of them, see how they're all looking. 
AABRIA: Do you use your dash to catch all the way up to them? Or are you farther back in the alley? 
MATT: No, I'd be further back. Mm, I'll use my dash to catch up to them. That's my whole turn. 
ROBBIE: Group chase. 
MATT: Yep. 
ROBBIE: Group chase. 
MATT: (pants) 
AABRIA: You're right, a group chase would begin. However, I held off on this last person's action to go at the very, very end. And you hear a voice, loud, and if you speak Elvish, you understand it. If you don't, she says, "I will take away everything you hold dear. You don't deserve it." And then she casts Dimension Door and disappears. 
AIMEE: Aw, man. 
LIAM: Counterspell! 
AABRIA: Yeah! 
ANJALI: Woo! 
LIAM: Oh, shit. 
AABRIA: You pull out a piece of thread. 
LIAM: Wrong guy. (laughter) 
AABRIA: Wrap it around your fingers. 
LIAM: I just kick the ground. 
ROBBIE: Our quarry did that? 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: Ah. 
AABRIA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, Mostly because it's, like, I don't know, 2:00 in the morning, and you guys can go home. I'm not going to let you fight her. Not yet. 
AIMEE: I want to fight her. 
ANJALI: Come on, I don't have anywhere to be until 8:00am, come on. 
AABRIA: Oh, we've got time, then. 
ANJALI: We have time. 
AABRIA: (laughs) But yes, you are out of initiative, and you're standing, staring down this street. You feel this pressure, and you can hear the vacuum as air rushes to fill a space where a person, though you couldn't see them, once was. 
LIAM: Wow. Great. What the hell was that about? 
MATT: Are they all gone? 
LIAM: I think so. What? What are you hold-- Oh. 
AABRIA: (laughs) 
AIMEE: I think she's like, you know when you're shaking, and all of the adrenaline is coursing through your body, and I don't think she understands what just happened. 
LIAM: Opal, Opal. Opal? 
AIMEE: Yeah? 
LIAM: Bring the head, come on, let's find the others. 
AIMEE: What head? 
LIAM: Come on. And I put my hand up, she's higher than me, so on her forearm, and guide her shellshocked self along down the alley. 
AIMEE: And then I go: What head, Nancy? 
AABRIA: (laughs) Oh my god. 
LIAM: I just push her forearm higher, and raise the head up-- 
AABRIA: I'm going to make a wisdom save on that. 
LIAM: -- into her field of vision. 
AIMEE: Oh. Ugh! (gasps) 
LIAM: Let's go figure this out. 
AIMEE: Drop the head. 
LIAM: Oh, okay. 
AIMEE: Oh, then you grab it. (laughter) 
AABRIA: And you carry the head back into this plaza that's now beginning to fill with people that have responded to the clashes, and bangs, and people that were still in the civic center late into the night are now fleeing around the sides, and gathering, and looking at these massive piles of rubble where two large, beautiful statues once stood. 
ANJALI: Is the building-- The building's structural integrity, it's not-- I know it was-- 
AABRIA: It's not amazing, but there's no threat of imminent collapse. 
ANJALI: Okay. 
AABRIA: Once it broke down, the pressure subsided. 
MATT: I'm going to go ahead and drop the disguise of Opal, but walk up to Opal. 
AABRIA: I liked two Opals. 
AABRIA: And seeing her through all this, put my hand on her shoulder, like: You okay? You okay, Opal? 
AIMEE: Yeah, yeah, I'm good. 
MATT: Yeah, let me get you some water. 
AABRIA: Opal, something within you, as the adrenaline begins to leave, you feel Ted finally relax and slump down. For the sake of now until we discuss it next, you no longer have access to your magic, as Ted has been put to sleep. 
AIMEE: Gotcha. Does she realize that, or she just feels the relaxation? 
AABRIA: You can feel it. Especially now that you've lived through a world in which you felt her holding that back from you intentionally. 
AIMEE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, for sure. 
AABRIA: You can feel the negative space, the lack of it. You feel so ordinary now. And you're alone, finally. 
AIMEE: Yeah. 
AABRIA: And it's on that note, in that quiet, lonely moment, that we're going to wrap for tonight. 
AIMEE: (squeals) 
AABRIA: You did it, you survived. I was trying to steal you, and you resisted. I'm very proud of you. 
AIMEE: Thanks, guys. 
MATT: Hell yeah. 
ANJALI: Whew. Because we have a very fast, bloodthirsty dire wolf on our side. 
AIMEE: Yes, woo! Fearne for the win, baby. 
MATT: Do I have a blanket and some hot cocoa I can put around her? 
AABRIA: (laughs) 
AIMEE: Like she'd run in that marathon. (shudders) 
AABRIA: It's the little deer. 
AIMEE: Yep. 
MATT: Man. What do we want to do? Time is funny, and we're telling the story, so things can exist out of order, if we need them to, and I don't want to take this away from you, or elide it to a note that you leave to the group that I read in a poor imitation of your excellent voice. So when did you leave the group? 
ANJALI: So after I make sure that everyone is calm and okay, I feel, somehow, in me, another pull. 
AABRIA: Yeah. 
ANJALI: Another pull in this space. Now I can feel her, and I feel the throbbing in my arm, and it is clearer than ever that, no matter how much I want to stay with you all, I have to go. I have to go to her, because she needs me more than you do, because you have proven yourselves so incredibly worthy. So we say a quick goodbye, but I know that it's urgent. And, as I am leaving, I go to leave, and I look up, and I turn to Dorian, and I walk directly up to your face, and I take your head in my hands, and I pull it so that your forehead is to mine. I know you know, little brother. I know you remember. You made a choice once. You thought you were unrecognized, unloved. Something drove you to a terrible choice, and you were willing to risk anything because you thought it was better to be alone. I am here to tell you, it is never better to be alone. Stay with your family. Not all family is blood. Much family is chosen. I cannot protect you again. Only you can do it this time. Stay in the light. Yes? 
AABRIA: You can have this conversation. I'm not stopping this, keep going. 
AIMEE: Mm. 
ROBBIE: Thank you, and don't worry. I would do anything for my friends. 
ANJALI: I believe you. Keep them safe. Especially that very confused, but gifted dwarf. 
AABRIA: (laughs) 
ANJALI: I did not expect the Observer to speak to him, but now, I know there is something extremely special about him. 
ROBBIE: I hope you find your sister. 
ANJALI: I know I will. And if you all need me more than I am needed somewhere else, I suspect The Gift will bring me to you again. But I will not hope that you are in that much danger, ever. I think you should call yourselves the Chosen Ones, because I choose you in my heart. Goodbye. And she turns around, and stalks off. 
AABRIA: Make a wisdom saving throw for me. 
ANJALI: 16 plus two, 18. 
AABRIA: Fy'ra, you were brought so far into their orbit the first time, and then back again, and you've led them for weeks, and across countless miles, through danger and discomfort, to get back here. And though you feel the pull, that thrill of duty, and dread, and excitement, and fear, and wonder at the truth that your sister is alive and out there, you know in your heart that this isn't the end. You were brought to them. They were chosen, but so were you, and this isn't the end of your time with them. And you know, more than anything else, with the wisdom that is dawning on you, that gives you a sense of perspective, almost like you're looking down from the skies, that this next part, they must do alone. And then, when the time is right again, you'll return, come back together for some great and terrible purpose, and in that knowledge, you slink back through the fog, and are quickly lost to darkness, out of Niirdal-Poc, through the jungles, and towards her, your sister, alive and waiting. And that's where we'll end for tonight. 
MATT: (chuckles) 
AIMEE: Woo! 
AABRIA: Thank you so much for joining us. 
ANJALI: Thank you so much. (cheering) 
AABRIA: Yay. 
ANJALI: You guy are amazing. 
AABRIA: You're amazing! 
ANJALI: You flipped a crocodile on its back. You beheaded people with dire wolf teeth. You played two different beautiful women. (laughter) 
ANJALI: Come on. 
MATT: (laughs) 
ANJALI: Too much. 
AABRIA: Oh man. You're phenomenal, and I don't have words to say how much of a pleasure it's been to get to run a game for you, and tell a story with you. I'm not going to cry, because I'm a bad bitch. 
ANJALI: I'm already crying, it's fine. 
AABRIA: No, it's fine, it's fine. 
ASHLEY: Bad bitches can cry! 
AABRIA: I'm just-- What? 
ASHLEY: Bad bitches can cry. 
AABRIA: Okay, well, I just got some splatter from that guy in my eye. I'm fine. 
AIMEE: Head juice. 
MATT: No. 
AABRIA: Head juice. 
ASHLEY: Head juice. 
ANJALI: Now I'm going to cry because that sounds so gross. 
AABRIA: It's so gross. Okay, all right, well, that's it for tonight, and, until we meet again, stay safe, be good, and is it Thursday yet? 
ASHLEY: See you next Thursday! (laughter, cheering) 
AABRIA: A liminal darkness. A place between places where she has been alone for so long, waiting for that little bit of glimmering light that is her sister. And yet she hears the echo's footfalls, impossibly loud, slow, methodical, approach her and swirling into her field of vision, a woman wreathed with purple energy, smiling, grinning, bearing her teeth at her. "I've been looking for you for so long. And I'm so close, and I will burn the world apart to have you." And Ted screams.