List of Transcripts

CHRISTIAN: (cheering) Wow. I can't hear you, and I don't think they can hear you. So one more time. (cheering) There you go. There you go. This is amazing. You all look amazing. Can you believe it's been three years? Three years. 2 1/2 years? Three years almost. My name is Christian Navarro. I'm an actor. You guys may know me from a show, "13 Reasons Why" and-- (cheering) Thank you, thank you, thank you. But that's not important. What is important is, I, like you, am a Critter. (cheering) I feel the love. I feel the love. They feel the love. They're back there waiting for you guys. But it's been a long time since they've been here and you guys have been able to say thank you, and we appreciate you, and we love you. So much has happened. "Vox Machina" (cheering) One hell of an animated series, right? The completion of Campaign Two: "Mighty Nein" (cheering) and of course, "Bells Hells" (cheering) So I am going to go over a couple of house rules. I'm sure you all know these, but we're going to say them anyway. Please ask one question for one cast member. Please keep your questions related to Critical Role, the show and the channel, and be respectful of the cast and of each other. I think we can all do that, right? (cheering) That's good. I'll tell you a little story. About three years ago, my best friend introduced me to Critical Role. I had never heard of roleplaying games, tabletop games. I come from the South Bronx. We just never played that stuff where I came from. Then the pandemic hit, and like many of you, I was held hostage to the situation, and my friend, my best friend, Jack Cummins, started a campaign and I fell in love with it. And I started watching the content and I fell in love with these people. And I fell in love with all of you guys. You guys are one of the best fanbases on the planet. (cheering) It's true. I traveled all over the world with "13 Reasons Why", I met incredible fans, and there are none as compassionate, as creative, as kind, and as loving as all of you. So I would like all of you guys to give yourselves a round of applause. (applauding) (cheering) Well, are you excited? (cheering) I can't hear you. That sounded a little weak. Are you excited? (cheering) All right, I think it's time. You guys ready to meet the cast of Critical Role? (cheering) All right. Introducing first, the man, the myth, the legend. Travis Willingham! (cheering) Yeah! Marisha Ray! (cheering) Taliesin Jaffe! (cheering) Ashley Johnson! (cheering) Liam O'Brien! (cheering) Laura Bailey! (cheering) Last, but certainly not least, Matthew Mercer! (cheering) The cast of Critical Role, everybody! (cheering) 
TALIESIN: Oh, god. As I bump my-- 
MARISHA: Forgot. Oh my god. 
CHRISTIAN: They clean up nicely, don't they? Guys, it's been a long time, hasn't it? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LAURA: Over years. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Oh my god, there's so many of you. (cheering) 
CHRISTIAN: Is this the biggest hall you guys have ever done? 
TRAVIS: I think it is. I think it is, yeah. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
CHRISTIAN: This is a lot of Critters. One more time, give yourselves a round of applause. (cheering) I mentioned earlier, you guys, so much has happened since the last Comic-Con panel. We all went into a pandemic, and since then, you guys released the best TV show on Amazon Prime. 
TRAVIS: Hey! (laughs) 
CHRISTIAN: "The Legend of Vox Machina" What was that like? 
TRAVIS: Oh, man, it was so great. Raise your hand if you have seen "The Legend of Vox Machina" (cheering) 
MARISHA: Most people. 
TRAVIS: That's pretty cool. 
MARISHA: That looks like a lot. Yeah. Yeah. 
TRAVIS: This is the first panel we've had since the show came out. 
MATT: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Oh, god. (laughing) 
MARISHA: The pandemic happened, so we didn't get to have a premiere, or any type of celebration, so this kind of counts as it. 
MATT: Yeah. Hell yeah. 
TRAVIS: It's you, it's with all of you. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (cheering) Let's get a step and repeat, let's get a red carpet. (laughing) 
LIAM: You know, it's been ages. Can I ask this group, anyone out there who is wearing cosplay related to Critical Role, will you stand up so we can see your amazingness? (cheering) 
TRAVIS: Look at the little Spire of Conflux. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's nice. 
MARISHA: Oh my gosh. Oh, look at that glowing staff for Kiki. 
LIAM: Oh, look at Fenthras. 
ASHLEY: Oh! Whoa! 
MATT: That's awesome. Look at the skirt. 
LIAM: It's Pâté! 
TRAVIS: Dang. Oh, all the way in the back. What's up? 
MARISHA: It's Pâté. 
LAURA: Oh my gosh. 
MATT: That's so cool! Oh, man. 
MARISHA: Someone dressed as my dead rat. 
CHRISTIAN: You guys have wrapped Mighty Nein, Campaign Two, that happened in between, right? 
LAURA: Mm-hmm. 
MATT: Oh my goodness. 
CHRISTIAN: And begun Campaign Three, Bells Hells. 
MATT: Campaign Three. It's just getting weirder. 
CHRISTIAN: No spoilers, but you guys checked out last week's episode? (cheering) 
LAURA: Oh, but spoilers, spoilers. 
CHRISTIAN: I won't spoil, but one hell of an episode, yeah? (laughing) 
TRAVIS: It was fun. 
MARISHA: It was great. 
MATT: A little intense. 
CHRISTIAN: Okay, I think we're going to open this up to the Q and A panel. 
MATT: Yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: Oh my gosh. (laughing) Oh my gosh! Nordverse! 
JILLIAN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: I was like, oh, look at that. 
TRAVIS: Oh, Nordverse! Respect! 
MARISHA: Cryptonic Override. 
JILLIAN: I made my friend cosplay as BlackWillow69 over there. 
LAURA: Oh my god. 
TALIESIN: Oh my god. 
CHRISTIAN: What's your name? Can you say your name? 
JILLIAN: Jillian. 
CHRISTIAN: Jillian, okay. And what's your question, Jillian? 
JILLIAN: My question is, so, when you play D&D, a lot of times you kind of think of scenarios with other characters or scenes that you want to play out, but then for one reason or another, it doesn't happen. Has there ever been a scene for any of you that you really wanted to play out but it just didn't happen? 
LIAM: It's kind of like life, isn't it? 
JILLIAN: Yeah. (laughing) 
LAURA: Yeah, there are so many times where I'll be driving in my car and having imaginary conversations, and I realize I'm having it with other characters as opposed to other people in my life. 
ASHLEY: (laughs) Yeah. 
LAURA: But it feels the same. So yeah, there are so many conversations that we've wanted to have. 
MATT: Yeah, I think-- 
TALIESIN: All the time. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you, Jillian. 
MATT: Any certain plot threads or elements of the campaign that we never get to before the end of it, it's always like, wow, we never really wrapped that up, but then maybe we get a chance to come back to it some point down the road or something. So yeah, there's always lingering threads. But I don't know, maybe one day. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you, Jillian. 
JILLIAN: Thank you. 
CHRISTIAN: Hello. Hello. 
TRAVIS: Whoo! 
MATT: You look amazing. 
MARISHA: You look so amazing. 
TALIESIN: Wow. 
KRISTY: Hi. 
TALIESIN: Wow. Wow. 
KRISTY: Hi, sorry. Actually, I weirdly asked a question last year, which was a big surprise.
CHRISTIAN: Welcome back. So, my name's Kristy. So kind of something, as you can tell, I love Keyleth and the Ashari, and all that. So, kind of wanted to know, partly, how much all the references that are finally coming back from Campaign One, now in Campaign Three, like Orym being of the Air Ashari and Laudna being a Sun Tree effigy, how much of that came up just because you guys were really missing Campaign One, and how much was because you guys were working on "Legends of Vox Machina" while you were planning for Campaign Three? 
MATT: That's a good question. I'm curious, too. (laughing) 
MARISHA: I think it's because after so many years of running around Exandria, it just gets more and more ripe and rich, and so there's just so much to pull from and play from from previous campaigns. I mean, a lot of stuff too, that I feel like we still wanted to explore and discover. I don't know, yeah, you can talk about the Ashari stuff. 
LAURA: You talk. 
LIAM: I talk. I would like to say, I. (laughing) I mean, Orym is a character that... I mean, I created Derrig in the wedding one-shot that we did to set up Orym. So I thought of him ages ago, and then thought a fun way to sort of lay the groundwork years in advance would be Derrig. Just same thing that you said, Marisha. The world is so dense and thick, and we like spending time in it, so I miss certain things from Campaign One, and I just kind of wanted to revisit them, but obviously do new things with it. I don't know, we like our make-believe place, so we stay there. 
MARISHA: Aww. (cheering) 
CHRISTIAN: Can I piggyback off of her question? I have a question for you guys, because you also did "Exandria Unlimited". You also did "Calamity". How fun is it playing in those worlds even though they're hundreds of years before the actions of your campaign? 
MATT: Oh, man. Well for me, I didn't play in "Calamity", but it was an absolute blast to both watch it happen and to help Brennan craft this and just watch everyone else take it to a level that I could never have imagined. Part of what's so surreal about what we've been able to do with this is, what started as a home game has now brought in so many other people to play and create in this space, and other ways of expressing and expanding upon these stories. And so for things like "Calamity" and EXU in the hands of people who are so talented, like Aabria and Brennan, and all of the players that have come in, it's the coolest thing. That's all I'm going to say. It's the coolest thing. I'm very happy. 
CHRISTIAN: Hell yeah. Hello. 
QUESTIONER: Hi! 
LAURA: Hi. 
QUESTIONER: So firstly, I want to say thank you to all of you for getting me into Critical Role, into playing "Dungeons & Dragons" This is my party, actually. (cheering) So thank you for that. And my question is for Taliesin, shocker. (laughing) So on "Between the Sheets", you talked about how Percy was a script that you wrote. Is that correct? 
TALIESIN: Yes. 
QUESTIONER: How does that feel now that it's kind of come to fruition? 
LIAM: That's true. 
TALIESIN: It's way better than what I wrote. (laughing) What I wrote was kind of, wow, very sophomoric. The game is way better, to be honest. I mean, it's better than you could've hoped, especially since most things that you write, if you're a creative writer, are just going to end up on a USB stick somewhere. (laughing) Yeah. Oh, yeah. So it's amazing to see that actually come into the world and see it animated even, my god. God. That's strange. You look great, by the way. Thank you. 
CHRISTIAN: What was your name? 
QUESTIONER: Christian. 
LAURA: Christian. 
MARISHA: Oh. Ah, yeah. 
CHRISTIAN: Nice to meet you, I'm Christian, too. (laughing) 
LIAM: Caleb, why are you with Vox Machina? You weren't supposed to time travel. (laughing)
TRAVIS: Does Essek know where you are? (laughing) 
MARISHA: Ooh. 
CHRISTIAN: Awesome costumes. Hello. 
CAMERON: Hi. I'm Cameron. Before I ask my question I just wanted to say, my mom made some wonderful pajama dice bags for the cast, so Brittany will be giving those to you after. (cheering) 
MATT: Thank you. 
LAURA: Adorable. 
LIAM: Thanks, Mom. 
TRAVIS: Thanks, Mom. 
MATT: Oh, that's awesome. 
CAMERON: It's got a pouch and everything. 
MATT: I love it. 
LAURA: That's so cute. 
LIAM: Wait, is that the print from-- 
ASHLEY: Thanks, Mom. 
LAURA: It looks like it. 
MATT: Like your vest, by the way. 
CAMERON: Yes, I'm doing a Matt Mercer cosplay today. (laughing) (cheering) 
LAURA: I think you nailed it. Yeah.
MATT: Well played. 
CAMERON: And of course, my question is for you, Matt. 
MATT: Uh-oh. 
CAMERON: As a forever DM, much often like yourself, do you have any NPCs that didn't see the light of day that you really wanted to? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: I was just going to say it. 
TRAVIS: That Liam hasn't killed. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Not while I'm around! 
MATT: It's a dangerous path. I mean, any NPC that I'm really excited about, I generally shoehorn into it somehow, you know? Even if they don't end up going where I think they might go, I'm like, well, I'll just reuse that part of the animal later. Anyone who's run enough games will know that if you're partial to something, you'll find a place for it. And if it doesn't find a place, then it usually ends up being a PC in the rare times that I do get to play. And often, many of the PCs that I make for the eventual hope that I'll play them, which never happens, just end up becoming NPCs. Sometimes. Sometimes. Sometimes. Occasionally. 
LAURA: Rarely. 
MATT: I know. But hey, I love GMing more than I love playing the game as a player, so I don't complain. (laughs) Good question. (cheering) 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Hello. 
KAT: Hi. My name's Kat. And first of all, I just wanna thank all of you. This is such a surreal experience, especially because, recently, I just got a Caleb Widogast-inspired- 
LIAM: Nice. 
KAT: Sentiment against self harm tattoo- (audience claps) 
LIAM: That's awesome. 
KAT: With the quote, "You were not born with venom in your veins." And it's just this whole world that you all have invented means so much to me. And my question is for Liam. When it comes to Caleb, his past and his trauma, as someone who is diagnosed with CPTSD, what thought processes and ideas went into how Caleb would react to his trauma when faced with it? Because a lot of media uses PTSD as just, "Oh, flashbacks." But you guys did so much more with Caleb. And so that is my question. 
MATT: Hm. 
LIAM: Well, Caleb is largely grounded in parts of my life that are private, but very real. And I know that we all aspire to sort of rise from the ashes, and we do. But I know from experience that, when things happen to us, on some level, we carry them with us. And when I created Caleb, I knew he was gonna be a wizard. I knew that they were going to fight dragons. I knew that fantastical things were going to happen. But when I created him, it was to explore the human experience. I didn't think anyone would ever... I always wondered if anyone would directly ask me this. (all applaud) The best way to answer this in a crowd full of people is to say that I am happy that I got to use the story we told, of the Mighty Nein and with Caleb, that people are really flawed, all of us, but it doesn't mean that every one of us is able to achieve great things, regardless of what's happened to us in the past. Doesn't mean we forget them. It doesn't mean that they go away. We live with them. But the world is still there for every single one of us. (all applaud) And it's a beautiful tattoo. 
KAT: Thank you. 
CHRISTIAN: Hello, hello. Thank you for your question. That was a beautiful question. 
JORDAN: Hello. 
CHRISTIAN: Liam- 
JORDAN: My name is Jordan. I came over from Denmark. Hi, Matt, hi, Marisha. 
MATT: Hi. 
MARISHA: Oh, hey, yeah! 
JORDAN: My question is, if you were to ever take Critical Role to live action, be that through TV series or movies, who would you cast as one of your characters?
MARISHA: Oh, oh. 
TRAVIS: Oh, no. 
TALIESIN: That's not fair. I don't know any proper nouns at all. (Travis laughs) 
MATT: What have you done, Jordan? 
CHRISTIAN: I think it's consensus that Travis is both big and strong enough to play Grog. 
TRAVIS: And dumb enough. (all laugh) (audience claps) 
MARISHA: And it's so weird 'cause, you know, the vain actor in me is like, "Well, me. "(laughs) Me." (all laugh) But a really cool one was, I was always kind of inspired by and saw a lot of Stephanie Beatriz in Beau. And then we got her to come in to play the lovely Miss Kima in "The Legend of Vox Machina". So there's this kind of really cool fangirl full circle to have Stephanie Beatriz be there. So that was awesome. 
TRAVIS: We have to shout out our amazing Sam Riegel, who of course is not here. He had a family reunion. But a little round of applause for Sam Riegel. (all cheer) 'Cause he's really... (laughs) He's the casting director of the bunch, you know? He's probably got some secret wall somewhere. 
MARISHA: Oh, absolutely. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: He's got a folder. 
TRAVIS: Anybody else? 
LAURA: I can't think of anybody. 
TALIESIN: We had a conversation in the first two years of Vox Machina, and I remember being excited by... And I think this is the name. Hugh Dancy from "Hannibal" as Percy would kind of be fun. He's just so sad. Yeah, he's got a very wonderfully sad- 
TRAVIS: And handsome and talented and all the good things. (Marisha and Taliesin laugh)
CHRISTIAN: Can I throw my name in the ring? Unless Sam kills me, but I think I can play Scanlan's Hand! 
MATT: Oh, yeah! (all cheer) 
MARISHA: Obviously yeah. 
TALIESIN: Hell yeah. 
LAURA: You'd be solid, Christian, you'd be solid. 
CHRISTIAN: We'll work on it, we'll work on it. Hello, hello. 
LIAM: Oh, wait, I'm gonna throw in Domhnall Gleeson perhaps for Caleb Widogast. 
LAURA: Ooh. Oh, yeah. 
MATT: I'm gonna say Seth Rogen for Pumat Sol. (all laugh) 
ASHLEY: I'm gonna throw one in. I think, for Pike, I would love for Amy Sedaris to play her.
MARISHA: Oh. 
LAURA: Oh, my god. You said that before, I love that. 
MATT: No, that's fucking great. 
TRAVIS: I've just been waiting for Danny DeVito to play Chetney. (all laugh) 
LAURA: Did anybody see "Eurovision", the movie, "The Fire Saga" movie? Anyway, it's awesome if you haven't seen it. But Rachel McAdams plays this character in the movie that Mary McGlynn, the director of... The voice director of our animated series, she called me, and she's like, "You need to watch this movie. She's basically playing Jester." So now I always see her as Jester. 
TRAVIS: Uh-huh. 
MATT: That's valid. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
CHRISTIAN: Hello, hello. 
LAURA: Oh, my god. 
MATT: Your Ciri costume's amazing. 
MADISON: Thank you. My name is Madison. And my question is for anyone who wants to chime in. Are there any NPCs you would like your Campaign Three character to meet from previous campaigns? 
ASHLEY: Ooh, that's a good question. 
TRAVIS: Are there any NPCs that you want your campaign three character to meet from previous campaigns? 
ASHLEY: Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh. 
LAURA: Yeah, oh, ah. 
ASHLEY: Victor. (all laugh) 
MARISHA: Oh, my god. 
TRAVIS: Who, who? 
MARISHA: Victor. 
TRAVIS: Oh, yeah, yeah. 
ASHLEY: Fearne and Victor would be quite fun. 
MARISHA: Yes. Yeah. 
MATT: You'd have to meet the pieces of him left. 
LAURA: Oh! (Travis laughs) 
LAURA: Poor Victor. 
MATT: Aw, he knew what he was getting into. (all laugh) 
LIAM: Scanning, scanning. 
MARISHA: I know, thinking, thinking. 
LAURA: I always want more Gilmore. 
TALIESIN: Always. 
LAURA: He should have franchises everywhere. I wanna go to a Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
MATT: I mean, he did franchise. 
LAURA: I know, right? 
CHRISTIAN: Laura Bailey, what do you think Trinket would think of Mister? 
LAURA: What would Trinket think of Mister? 
CHRISTIAN: What would Trinket think of Mister? (all laugh) 
MARISHA: He would hate Mister. 
TRAVIS: Nah, he wouldn't. 
LAURA: I was gonna say he would love him, but I don't know. He might- 
ASHLEY: I don't know if he would. 
LAURA: I know, he might be kind of annoyed- 
ASHLEY: Yeah. 
LAURA: Because Trinket, by this point, Trinket would be kind of old. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Aw. 
TALIESIN: Aw, that's sad. 
LAURA: I mean, he lives... Doesn't he live as long as Vex lives, based on stuff? 
MATT: Sure. (all laugh) Yes, it's canon now. Trinket will outlive all of Vox Machina including Keyleth. There it is. 
LAURA: But also, Trinket, he can also live in the necklace, so it extends his life. 
LAURA: Technically. Yeah, in the way that a couple of forced comas, I guess, extend your conscious life. 
LAURA: No, but he's... (all laugh) 
MATT: You're fine. 
LAURA: Trinket lives forever. 
MATT: Yeah, there you go. 
LAURA: So yeah, he'd be old, but he'd be there. And he'd be annoyed. He'd be a grumpy old guy.
ASHLEY: He'd be a grumpy old guy, yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
ASHLEY: Mister would give him some... Mister's a bit of a... A bit of an asshole? (all laugh) I don't know. I don't know, I don't know. 
TRAVIS: I love how you whispered it. (laughs) (all laugh) 
ASHLEY: I don't know why... Yeah, everybody can obviously hear me. I don't know why I whispered. 
TRAVIS: There's a microphone. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you, Madison. That was a great question. Hello, hello. 
QUESTIONER: Hi. My question is for Matt, but really anyone on the panel. Is there any time that you felt that there was a DM like Matt ruling over your lives? 
CHRISTIAN: Can you repeat that? Did you hear it? 
QUESTIONER: Is there any time in any of your lives that you felt like a DM like Matt was ruling over it? 
TRAVIS: Oh, where it felt like that? 
MARISHA: Oh, like some meta-ass shit? 
MATT: Oh.
LAURA: Puppeteering our life. 
MARISHA: Oh, are we about to get existential? 
MATT: I think we are. (all laugh) 
MARISHA: Is this turning into, this is all a simulation- 
CHRISTIAN: Oh, man. 
MARISHA: Type of a thing? 
TALIESIN: Oh, that's an easy... All of it, nothing makes sense. 
MARISHA: Nothing's real. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, my entire life feels unreal. I'm going to wake up in a snow globe any minute. I'm not kidding. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (all laugh) 
TALIESIN: One down. 
MATT: I would say, for me, no. To quote a great fey entity, "Everything is F'ing chaos." (all cheer) 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you, thank you, thank you. What a costume. Hello, hello. 
ALLIE: Hello. 
TRAVIS: Oh, boy. 
LAURA: You look so good. 
ALLIE: Hi. So my name's Allie. And I have a question for Liam going after the question about Caleb before. So as we know, D&D is a wonderful medium to create stories that have so much significance and teach us life lessons. And with that, I want to know, Liam, what's one of those profound moments from campaign two that still resonates with you today? 
MATT: Oh, wow. 
LIAM: Uhh. 
TRAVIS: Disintegrate. (all laugh) Troll. 
TALIESIN: Kicking around the head and neck there, wow. 
LIAM: Jeez. (all laugh) 
TRAVIS: Serious question. 
MATT: Liam, go on. What's up, man? 
LIAM: I didn't exactly have a plan for the end of the campaign. Early on in the campaign, I thought I really was going to make a go for dragging these guys with me back in time, and maybe trying to change things. That was one possible thread. I didn't know that I was embarking on a story about acceptance at the beginning. So I kind of startled myself in the very last episode with Caleb's final moments. And I'll probably never forget how real that felt to me. We think about these characters and our friend characters and Matt's invisible characters. They're all our friends, and we spend time getting to know them and exploring our own new personalities. And many of these guys have said, playing games like this is a practice in empathy and learning what other people are like and the difficulties between us and how little difference there is between us. I don't know, I spent a lot of time thinking about his parents. And I just... Yeah, I'll never forget saying goodbye to them in that way. (all applaud) I like butt and shit jokes too. (all laugh)
CHRISTIAN: Hello, hello, hello. 
ANDREA: On a lighter note... (all laugh) 
TRAVIS: Yeah! 
ANDREA: Who enjoys the custom character class creation more, Taliesin or Matt? 
ALL: Hm... (all laugh) 
TALIESIN: They should see the monstrosity I sent you of the chaos barbarian before you reeled me in. 
MATT: Oh, my goodness. 
TALIESIN: It was bad. 
MATT: Well I will say, I really enjoy the process of custom class creation when it's not made public on the internet... (all laugh) 
TRAVIS: And open to criticism. 
MATT: Because then you get to realize real fast how it's broken or useless or too powerful or absolutely not usable in the game by all facets. But I enjoyed making it. But it is the fixing of your stuff that's always the challenge. (all laugh) That fundamental chaos barbarian build you sent me for Ash in the get-go, I was like, "There's some really interesting ideas here. I'm going to have to rewrite all of it. But it's good bones, it's good bones." (all laugh) 
CHRISTIAN: What was your name? 
MARISHA: It's kind of unfair that you get three subclasses. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Build your own system. What do you want from me? (laughs) 
MARISHA: Okay, I'll get right on that. 
TALIESIN: Damn. 
ASHLEY: Fair enough. (applauds) 
TALIESIN: Anybody can do it. Well, anybody can make Matt do it. 
MARISHA: I'm too busy building stamina. (laughs) 
CHRISTIAN: What was your name? (laughs) 
ANDREA: I'm Andrea. I'm the girl who sold you the Arknights stuff at Gen Con back before--
MATT: Oh yeah. 
ASNREA: --t he world broke. 
MATT: Oh yeah, good to see you. 
CHRISTIAN: Thanks, Andrea. 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
CHRISTIAN: Appreciate you. 
TRAVIS: Good to see you again! (laughs) 
CHRISTIAN: Hello. 
VACLAV: Hello. My name is Vaclav. I'm from Czech Republic. (coos) It's really nice to see you after five years ago. My question is for Travis. You are known to be scared pretty easily. (laughs) I want to know which DM did it better. 
TRAVIS: Oh man. 
CHRISTIAN: Put him on the spots. 
TRAVIS: Well, here's the thing. They both crossed over the DM screen, which I feel like is a dereliction of the rules. Like, you shouldn't be able to cross that boundary. That's my safe space, right? That's the neutral territory where maps and dice go. When you reach over the screen towards my person it gets a little dicey. I think Brennan got a little closer. Plus, when he did his face, his eyeballs kind of came out of his head. Like, they just went, "Pop!" And I thought they were going to fall out. But Matt's sound effects give him a plus three to horrific-ness. (laughs) So I'll give the temporary crown to Mercer for making me pee my pants. (laughs and applauds)
MARISHA: Sounds banging. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. Making a plot. 
MARISHA: Brennan's good. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you, thank you. Hello. 
REN: Hello. Oh, that was very close to the microphone. Hi, I'm Ren. As a cosplayer and artist, my question is for Taliesin. What is your favorite design element that you've added to any of your characters? 
TALIESIN: Oh boy. Well, I can definitely stick with the most recent one because that was tough because it was such a modern character in trying to get a modern style into something that looked at least fantasy enough that I didn't feel bad. Because it is, it's like leather, there's a lot of leather and otherwise. I was specifically making all of the buckles around just as a way of breaking up into a more, the way that you would see the traditional, or renaissance fair buckles, have that big round shape with the big bar through it, just to kind of push it more fantasy. I was very happy with how that came together. So, yeah. 
MATT: Cool. 
CHRISTIAN: Awesome. Thank you. 
BREN: Hi. 
CHRISTIAN: Hi. 
BREN: Hi. So my name is Bren, funnily enough. (laughs) Hi. 
TRAVIS: You can battle after the panel. It's fine. 
BREN: Great. 
MATT: (like Trent) It’s good to see you, Bren. 
BREN: My question is for Taliesin. 
TALIESIN: Oh god. Go on. 
BREN: So when Molly first revealed his backstory, or lack thereof, essentially, (laughs) there was a, like, Nott kept pressuring him to talk about the past life or wanting to know about the past life. For reasons then unknown, she was very interested in that, then later on, Nott's backstory was revealed, and she was Veth, and had a similar experience with waking up in an unfamiliar body. I'm very curious what Molly would've thought about that, because he wasn't there for that revelation. What would Molly have to say about that? About Nott being so curious about your backstory because of, for reasons. 
TALIESIN: I will say not to plug, but I finally got to write down everything with Molly for the comic book coming out, so that will actually fill in some holes for everyone. I'm so sorry. I'm sorry that I roll poorly. Molly would find the whole notion of Veth going back to being mom very boring, and probably a bad decision versus actually going out and having fun and not having responsibilities, because that is literally the antithesis of what he wanted. But again, it's always important, I would say. I think he'd know that it's always important to support your friends, especially when they're making unbelievably bad decisions, and help them along so that they learn their lesson. So not a safe friend to have, to be fair. So yeah, I think it would be definitely like, well, I guess you can settle down. Sure. If that's what you want. Weird. So yeah, I think that would be the feeling. 
TRAVIS: That's a good friend. 
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm. Very good friend. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you. 
TALIESIN: Thank you so much. (applauds) 
CHRISTIAN: Hi. 
CHRIS: Hi, my name is Chris, and I'm from the far away land of Slovenia. I came all the way here to see you guys in person. 
LAURA: Wow. What? 
CHRIS: Yesterday. 
MATT: Welcome. 
CHRIS: Yeah. My birthday was yesterday. I wished to be on this panel that I could ask a question, that's amazing. So my question goes to Travis. What's your favorite part when you played Grog? 
LAURA: He flew across the world for this answer, so make it good. (laughs) 
TRAVIS: What's your question? What's my favorite part of playing Grog? 
CHISTIAN: Yes. 
TRAVIS: That there's no filter. There is just, which is also partially similar with Chetney. And also, anything that he says or does wrong, since it was my first character build, is instantly forgivable, because he's an idiot. (laughs) So, you can't really be mad at him. So, as long as I can just hide behind that 6 intelligence, I can kind of do whatever I want. (laughs) But that was my favorite part, and just also being able to react off of what everybody else was doing. It was pretty much for me, the safest way to enter D&D, because Laura and Liam were doing their thing, Marisha had a druid that had all of these options and they were all leading the charge, and I was just back there talking about butts, and beer, and chopping heads. (laughs) 
MARISHA: It's so freeing though. It's kind of the way to go. With Laudna, I love it. 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
MARISHA: I don't want to think anymore. I'm tired. (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Yeah, I just took a character that tried to kill Santa and threw him in Campaign Three, so you know-- 
MARISHA: It's great. Just great. 
TRAVIS: Having a ball. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you for your question. Hello. 
MATT: Oh. 
CHRISTIAN: What a costume. 
TRAVIS: Yo. 
EMMA: Hello. 
MATT: Hi. That's amazing. 
LAURA: Wow. 
MARISHA: Wow. 
TRAVIS: It's not time. 
MATT: Run, run. 
EMMA: Hi. My name is Emma. I'm from Southern California. So my question is a Calamity question. 
MATT: Ooh. 
EMMA: Especially for Matt and Marisha, in regards to The Raven Queen. 
MARISHA: Yes. 
EMMA: As a character who personally knew The Raven Queen as a mortal, and then seeing how she has evolved into this modern Campaign Three, where there's even cultures of her that interpret her differently, what is that like seeing the world change and evolve, especially with such a God that was mortal? 
MARISHA: Man, it was so cool. Calamity was so cool because, and Travis and I have talked about this a lot, where you heard this word, The Calamity in the Age of Arcanum, but you didn't really have a lot of context for it. It was just kind of like people are like, "Yeah. Pompeii, it happened." And you're like, "Okay. It did." So being able to be in it, it kind of really gave such a more broader understanding of what was going on in that time, and then really getting to explore the stuff with The Raven Queen, and how exploring a character whose perspective would be, "Well, of course we could take..." Spoilers, by the... I'll try and keep it vague, but you should watch Calamity. It's real good. (cheers) But trying to play these super high level characters who watched people ascend into immortality and god-dom and being like, "Yeah, it's no big deal. I just watched her do it." (laughs) "Why can't we do it with everybody in this city? Let's go." So it was interesting to kind of play off of that perspective. (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Don't do that. 
MARISHA: Don't do that. 
MATT: The only thing I'll add to that is, for me, one of my favorite themes to explore, and I've been slowly exploring as the campaigns go on, and hope to continue to do so in interesting ways is that, that fantasy idea of the relationship between mortality and immortality, and you hear like, gods and men, and kind of blurring the lines of where that dynamic can be questioned, where it can be faithful, and the complications that come with societal history, where those lines get blurred with someone like The Raven Queen, who really changes that perspective. Up until that point, there was very much a delineation between the two, but then one person made that step and it kind of blew the doors off of possibility, and kind of really shook the idea of faith at that time in history, and so I look forward to possibly exploring threads of that down the road. (cheers) And your costume's amazing. 
CHRISTIAN: I just have to say really quickly that I watched Calamity with my jaw open. Every week, I was blown away. Hello. 
MARISHA: So, so good. 
LAURA: You're so cute. You're so cute. 
SHERRY: Thank you. Smiley day to you. Ooh. (laughs) I'm Sherry, and first off, thank you all to the tribute to Grant in the recent episodes. It was very sweet. My question is for anyone, and I figured this might be interesting since Sam isn't here. 
MATT: Ooh. 
SHERRY: But for good or bad, what are some of your most memorable ad bits? 
LAURA: Oh god. 
TALIESIN: The one we just did is pretty low. 
MATT: You mean from a scarring, traumatic level? 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Because there's a lot. 
TALIESIN: It hasn’t aired yet. Yeah. 
LAURA: Scarring wise, the ad he did where he just ate a whole bunch of shit. Do you remember that? 
TRAVIS: Yeah. 
LAURA: When he like... oh. He ate a hot dog and then... I don't remember everything. It was so gross. 
Audience Member: Speak of the gutter. 
LIAM: Yeah, he put dairy product in wine, didn't he? 
MATT: That one was pretty nasty. 
LIAM: Yeah. 
LAURA: And toothpaste. Didn't he put toothpaste in it too? 
MATT: He did. 
LAURA: I don't remember. It was all gross. I really love the lounge singer stuff though. Especially with you, Ashley, too. It was really, really cool. 
TRAVIS: We're getting some good chest hair, like some nice mid chest hair right behind Matt Mercer's head, which is always an interesting dichotomy. (laughs) 
MARISHA: Man, there've been some good ones. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MARISHA: There... well, I don't know. I don't know if I should. 
TRAVIS: What? 
MARISHA: The one where the NFL got mad at us. 
TRAVIS: The chest burster? Yeah, yeah. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Oh man. 
TRAVIS: I'm a big fan of the Dallas Cowboys. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: He came out wearing a Dallas Cowboys shirt, and then he had a chest burster burst through and spew fake blood all over the shirt, and a couple people I know at the Dallas Cowboys were like, "Please don't do that." (laughs) 
MARISHA: Turns out the NFL doesn't like their logos seeping with blood and guts and gore. But it was also, we were like... 
TRAVIS: I got to go to a training camp and I had some of the offensive linemen record a threatening voice message for him with a video behind it. (laughs) 
TALIESIN: I forgot about that. 
TRAVIS: So now he's a Cowboys fan. (laughs) 
LIAM: I'm so glad he is not here to hear me say this, because his ego doesn't need it, but, Sam is amazing. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
LIAM: Week after week after week, he's thinking of these bits while he is driving in the car, while he is taking showers. Sometimes he pulls them out of his butt, very soon beforehand. I'll never forget when we did the election and I had to, and he's like, "Let's do a debate." I was like, "Oh my god. I have to think of something that will go toe to toe with Sam," and I put all my effort into one night, but Sam just, week after week, for years at this point. He's a mad genius.
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: Yeah. Agree. I say, for that reason, there's also like a layer of anxiety before we do any session, because we know it's coming. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MATT: And we don't know what he's going to do. 
LAURA: He won't tell us ahead of time what we're going to be saying, or doing. It's terrifying.
MARISHA: Sincerely. 
TALIESIN: Very. 
MARISHA: Oftentimes you are seeing us read through it for the first time on camera. 
ASHLEY: Yes. (laughs) 
MARISHA: So... 
LAURA: Hence why it's so bad. (laughs) 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you, thank you, thank you. 
MATT: Thank you. 
CHRISTIAN: Hello. 
MONTY: Hi, my name is Monty. 
ALL: Hi Monty. 
NIBTY: Wanted to thank you guys for putting on such an amazing thing for all of us, and so thank you for that. (applauds) My question is for Matt. I'm a DM, and sometimes I get really lost in making cool stuff to give my players, and I accidentally... I didn't accidentally, I gave it to my level three Paladin a spear that he can throw and smite, and then it comes back, and I realize that was a terrible mistake. (laughs) And how do you deal with balancing creation of spells or items, and what happens when you actually give something that you shouldn't have given to someone who now has... (laughs) 
MATT: This is a great question. It's a lesson you'll be always learning. (laughs) It'll get slowly better with time. What I've found is if you give something to a player that's way too powerful, that just means you have to make what they fight that much harder, and kill all their friends. (laughs) Or, what happens if that powerful item gets taken by an antagonist's character, and now uses it against them, and by the time they win it back, they're high enough level where it's not quite as unbalanced? So yeah, it's just about, it becomes a problem solving aspect, because you don't want to give something cool to a player and then take it away. Unless they're someone you've known and played with a long time, and they understand, oh, you're still trying it out. We'll tweak and balance some things here and there, but we've also been playing together for a long time. So as opposed to taking it away, just finding other ways to narratively balance it, whether it be additional challenges, maybe upping a couple of other items for other players and then just raising the overall difficulty level to match it, or give it to the bad guy, and make them really hate the item. (laughs) 
CHRISTIAN: Hey buddy, you have a beautiful voice, by the way. 
LAURA: Yeah, you really do. 
CHRISTIAN: Cool. Thank you. 
MARISHA: You do. (applauds) 
CHRISTIAN: Hello. 
MATT: You look so cute! (laughs) 
CONTESSA: Hi. I'm Contessa. And my question is for Laura. 
LAURA: Hello. 
CONTESSA: Hello! So in every D&D campaign, there is always a party member who is mercilessly teased and has absolutely no dignity. And in campaign one, that was often Scanlan. And in campaign two, sorry, it was Fjord a lot. (all laugh) But Imogen's kind of the heel a lot right now. How does that feel to get to be... To get to be a part of all of these jokes? (all laugh)
LAURA: How does it feel to get made fun of all the time? 
CONTESSA: I mean, by all of your friends. 
LAURA: No, yeah. It's really difficult, not just the getting made fun of. That's fine. But Imogen as a character I find is very challenging mostly because of what Travis was talking about earlier. Coming from a character like Jester, who was the no-filter character, which is such a blast to play, to go to a character that overthinks everything that they're about to say, is just very difficult. And a lot of times I'm scared to talk, which kind of makes sense for Imogen too. Yeah, it's really challenging. (nervous laughs) (all laugh) You hear in your head... (nervous laughs) 
MATT: It's okay. She doesn't have any sort of major involvement with the campaign. 
LAURA: No, no, no, it's fine, it's fine, it's fine. 
CHRISTIAN: Hello. 
SEAN: Hi. My name is Sean. And like every year I've been to the panel, I would like to thank you again for all the genderqueer characters you introduce into the show. (all applaud) That also includes Pirate Captain Tommy Wiseau. (all laugh) 
MATT: I love Xandis. They're the best. 
SEAN: My question, which hopefully you can answer is, I was wondering, while the opening sequence plays during each episode, what are some of the things the cast yells and shouts at Matt that we don't get to see? 
MATT: Oh, boy. 
ASHLEY: I don't know if we can say those here. 
TRAVIS: There's a good way to do this. I feel like, if we count down from three and just do it all at once, it'll- 
LAURA: No, god. 
MATT: It literally says on the back of this, "Many members of the audience may be under the age of 18." 
TALIESIN: Yeah, we actually have a sign saying- 
LAURA: Yeah, we can't say that. 
MATT: But here, think of some of the more... Three, two, one. (all yell random things) Every episode. 
LAURA: Except probably way worse. 
MATT: Usually very worse. They're trying to break me. And they've been doing this for eight years. So they get real creative. 
LIAM: Usually Matt gets hit with just a wall of sound from all of us. But there are some weeks where everyone kind of clocks out, and one person will be like, "Piss whistle!" And they'll be the only one. 
TALIESIN: Yep. (all laugh) 
MATT: Keeps me young. 
MARISHA: It's the pinnacle of comedy. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Some of the best writing you ever heard. 
MATT: True that. Thank you. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Hello. 
VAUGHN: Hi. My name is Vaughn. You might remember me as the guy that asked Taliesin how many character deaths it would take for him to rage quit. (all laugh) 
TALIESIN: One? 
MATT: Two, three. 
VAUGHN: Sorry, Travis, I couldn't think of an insightful question. So you get a stupid one. If you were to replace the offense of the Dallas Cowboys with members of Vox Machina and the Mighty Nein, who would make the starting lineup? 
TRAVIS: Oh, oh. 
LAURA: What? 
ASHLEY: This is a good question. (Matt laughs) 
TRAVIS: I'd put- 
ASHLEY: Wait, wait, wait. 
TRAVIS: I'd put Yasha on tight end. 
ASHLEY: Yes! 
TRAVIS: I definitely have Vax as quarterback. 
LAURA: Oh, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Grog would be starting middle linebacker or outside defensive end. Vex would be free safety. Keyleth would be offensive coordinator. 
LAURA: You've thought about this. I feel like- 
TRAVIS: I don't know what's happening right now. 
LAURA: Having them all too fast. 
TRAVIS: This is what I was made for. I was meant for this! Chetney's the kicker. (all laugh) 
LAURA: Is Chet in Cowboys colors? 
TRAVIS: Is what? 
LAURA: Did you put Chetney in Cowboys colors? (all laugh) 
TALIESIN: Oh, my god. 
TRAVIS: Don't worry about it. (all laugh) I'm sure there will be others. But we'll go with that for now. 
CHRISTIAN: Who's the QB? 
TRAVIS: It's Vax, Vax is definitely QB. 
CHRISTIAN: Vax is QB. 
TRAVIS: He's a running QB, yeah. 
CHRISTIAN: Cool question, hello. 
Hi. I wanted to ask Taliesin about after Molly was resurrected, if he decided to go with Kingsley as a way to help the rest of the group mourn or accept Molly's death? 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
TALIESIN: Boy, oh, boy. I'll be honest, I wasn't thinking about them at all. (all laugh) In fact, quite the opposite. I, I... That was always the plan for me. There was never a moment where... The whole notion that I had started with that was a celebration of the ephemeral. That was a lot of the character. The very foundation of that character's personality was gather thee rosebuds. It was all about live now, get it done. You've got a very short time to do this. And there's no... There's no mushrooms to find. You're not going to get a second round at the level. And so having that character get... Having that character come back was always gonna be kind of a fresh start and very specifically kind of just take the very bass notes of where he had been before. So yeah, it was more about a fundamental aspect of that character. It would have been wrong to bring him back. Thank you so much. No one's ever asked that before. 
MATT: Good question. 
TALIESIN: Oh, my god. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you. 
TRAVIS: I just can't, I can't... I can't stop thinking about the other positions. Now I just wanna build a roster. (all laugh) Ashton's going to be a fullback. And Beau would definitely be a slot receiver 'cause nobody wants that coming across the middle. (all laugh) 
TALIESIN: Oh, my god, that's true. Do we have- 
TRAVIS: No, you go. 
TALIESIN: Careful. You've almost made your own one-shot that you have to run now.
TRAVIS: One-shot? Okay. (crowd cheers) 
TALIESIN: I'm so sorry. 
MARISHA: It's the epitome of fantasy football. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MARISHA: New meaning. 
TRAVIS: Some things just have to be done. (all laugh) 
CHRISTIAN: Hi. 
SAM: Hi there. I'm Sam. 
MATT: Hey, Sam, you look amazing. 
TALIESIN: Looking good. 
SAM: Thank you so much. I am a DM. And so for Matt, I have a DM-related question. But I do have a similar question just in case you're really tired. 
MATT: Here's my secret. I'm always tired. (all laugh) 
SAM: Okay, so our somewhat homebrew Exandria campaign has been going for more than two years now. I have a general plan for where the campaign goes. But any time I try and plan a session, I have trouble figuring out how to show and not tell my players the situation. Do you have any examples or tips for letting the players figure it out for themselves? 
MATT: Well I will say one thing up front. You as the GM have all the information, and the players often have little to none. So even if you think you're laying down enough information, you only think it's enough because you know exactly where it's going and how all the pieces slot in. So if you feel like the players aren't picking up on some of the clues and the pieces, don't be afraid to be a little bit overt with it until they start really pulling on the thread, if that makes sense. I've run campaigns in the past where I was really trying to build a mystery and just barely meted out information. And by the end of the session, the players were just very confused and didn't quite know where things were going. And that's not their fault, that's mine. And so it's learning that balance. And part of it comes with experience, and part of it is just being okay with being a bit open and overt with some of the mystery to at least get them interested. And then if they start kind of floundering a little bit, that's when you throw them another piece and throw them another piece. And so keeping little notes, keeping tabs of what things are important for your overall narrative, and as they're talking about it, think in your head, like background processing of your computer processor, where the next fun bit to reveal one of these threads can be. 'Cause even though you're like, "I don't wanna give them too much information," you're often giving them too little 'cause that's my problem. (laughs) I hope that helps. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you. (audience applauds) Hello. 
LUCAS: Hello. My name is Lucas. And I drove an entire hour and a half to get here. 
TRAVIS: Yes, Lucas! Good work! 
MARISHA: Absolutely. 
LUCAS: My question is for Matt that, if you were to have a loaded 20-sided die that always rolled a 20, and then you gave it to Wil Wheaton- (all laugh) What would happen? 
LIAM: You've seen "Inception", right? (Matt laughs) Does it land? 
MATT: I mean, you think it's gonna be terrible. But if we are eventually racing towards the eventual entropic heat death of the universe, this might be the only way to reverse the process. (all laugh) You might be on to something here, so keep that in mind. If you find one, let me know. This could save us, or it could destroy us all. (audience laughs) Good question, and I'm scared now. (all laugh) 
CHRISTIAN: Hi. Hello, hello. 
MIKO: Hi. I'm Miko. My question is, out of the previous characters you've all played through Exandria, which one would you say is your favorite or the one you've resonated the most with?
LAURA: That's tough. 
LIAM: My children. 
MARISHA: It's so hard. 
LAURA: Yeah, they're all our babies. 
MATT: Pick one. (audience laughs) 
TRAVIS: I mean, I could say Fjord because I'm not a small murderous, and I'm not a super tall-
LAURA: Murderous? 
TRAVIS: Murderous. (all laugh) Mine's easy. 
MARISHA: You're a medium murderous. 
TRAVIS: I'm a medium murderous. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: A medium dummy. 
MARISHA: Just right. Man, I don't know. Each character kind of gives you a different outlet for different aspects of your personality. So they're kind of their own little explorations into facets of yourself. So it's tough. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MARISHA: But of course I have a soft spot for Keyleth because- (fans cheer) It was my first love. You never forget your first. 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you. We're gonna start to wrap this up. So this will be our last question from this woman here, hello. 
IRENE: Hi, my name's Irene. 
CHRISTIAN: Hi, Irene, hi. 
IRENE: So with Exandria Unlimited, you've been able to jump around and explore the past, like the Calamity. Are there other parts in the history that you would be interested in doing? 
MATT: Oh, yeah. 
MARISHA: So much. 
MATT: Yeah. Going into past elements, the Calamity itself took a protracted period of time. And what we saw with that mini series was just the inception point in one city. There's whole different other areas within the Calamity, and different societal aspects. There's the Vasselheim side of things and the more faithful elements of society. Then there's people who are stuck in the middle of both sides, between the human pursuits of arcanum and immortality, and the existing faith and control of Exandria since the Founding. We have the Founding before that, and we have... There's a few. (all laugh) But then also after campaign three, we can do time jumps and see what an industrial revolution era of Exandria could be- 
LAURA: What? 
MATT: Or something like that. There's whole different possibilities. 
LAURA: Ooh! 
MATT: Who knows where it could go? And there's whole parts of the world that we've never explored, and things that might be even off the map that have been lost to time. Who knows?
LIAM: And Keyleth never changes. 
LAURA: Aw. (Marisha laughs) It's so true. She's there forever. 
TRAVIS: She is. One of the really cool things about what we're able to do is that, every time we have a new campaign or a new character, a new mini series, there are ripples. And it affects all of the other productions that we have in development. So there are real-time changes happening to everything that we do. So when something like Exandria Unlimited happens, or Calamity happens, all of us get together, we huddle up, we get excited, and stuff changes. It evolves, it grows. So everything that we're doing, whether it's on the live play side or with the animated series, some things get a little change here and there. And so it's a real-time evolution that's happening with all of you. And that's what makes this, for us, so incredibly special. 
LIAM: Yeah, we're really gifted to be able to world-build like we're doing. And we have many stories that we want to tell that take place in the past, the present, and the future of what you've already seen. We're really lucky and grateful for it. Thanks. (audience applauds) 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you for your amazing questions. Safe to say lots of more Critical Role content is coming our way, yeah? 
LAURA: Ooh, ooh. 
TRAVIS: Yes. 
MARISHA: Oh, we're just getting started. 
CHRISTIAN: Yeah, good. (laughs) 
TRAVIS: Warmed up. 
CHRISTIAN: Well thank you all for coming out today. Can you give yourselves a round of applause? (all applaud) Can you give it up for the cast of Critical Role? (audience applauds) Matt? 
MATT: A couple of quick things. One, it's so wonderful to see all of you after so much time. We're so happy that we had the opportunity to come here and see all these wonderful faces. Thank you for coming along with us on these wild stories- 
LAURA: It feels too short already. (laughs) 
MATT: It's really wonderful and emotional, and we're just extremely grateful and thankful that we get to do what we do alongside all of you. So thank you. And if I could just get everyone to give a big round of applause to the incredible Christian Navarro for running this amazing panel and being an amazing person. (all applaud) 
CHRISTIAN: Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Hey, I just want to say, and I think I can speak on behalf of a lot of the Critters here, you guys have helped me through some of my roughest times. I love you. Thank you for what you do for me and for everyone here. Thank you. 
TALIESIN: Love you too, man. (all cheer) 
CHRISTIAN: And thank you. I think that's all for us. Give it up one more time for the cast of Critical Role. 
TRAVIS: Have a great weekend, guys! (all cheer)