List of Transcripts
ROBBIE: Let's officially get this panel started! (audience cheering) Cue the video? Make the magic? Do the Comic-Con? This is the first panel I've ever moderated and this just feels right, what's happening right now. Imagine in your mind's eye, theater of the minds, a giant burning, animated, "Critical Role" logo. There's epic music. The theme song starts. Please let the theme song start. (theme music) Yes! (audience cheering) Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome to the stage, Mr. Travis Willingham! Let's go! (audience cheering) (Travis laughs) (audience cheering) Up next, you know her, you love her, it's Marisha Ray! (audience cheering) Oh, let's bring it up to the stage, Taliesin Jaffe! Let's go! (audience cheering) And up next, an absolute queen, Ashley Johnson! (audience cheering) Do you want a tragic backstory? So do I. It's Liam O'Brien! (audience cheering) Laura Bailey! (audience cheering) Everyone tent your fingers and give it up for Matthew Mercer! (audience cheering) For the whole cast of "Critical Role", show 'em you love 'em. (audience cheering) 
MATT: Oh wait. I think we have one person we're missing. 
ROBBIE: He's a write-in! Oh, that's right. He forgot Sam. (laughs) It was so epic. I knew I would mess it up. 
MATT: It's not your fault. It's not your fault. It's not on the sheet. 
ROBBIE: Sam Riegel! (audience cheering) (Matthew laughing)
TRAVIS: It's just like we planned it. 
ROBBIE: Welcome to the Fireside Chat. It's certainly a fire so far. Before we start off, I'm gonna ask some questions that we've got for you guys here. Darrington Press. It's been an incredible year for Darrington Press so far including the first official State of the Press, the releases of Till the Last Gasp, Queen by Midnight- 
TRAVIS: Yes! 
ROBBIE: Illuminated Worlds, and more. 
TRAVIS: Ow!
ROBBIE: This is for everybody. What's it been like to develop and publish your own games? Yeah, it's everybody. 
MATT: Oh, everyone's looking at me. I guess I'll kick it off. Hi, everybody. (audience cheering) It's been wild. We- Oh waters. Oh my goodness. Look at this. We've got this. Thank you so much! 
TALIESIN: I'm good.			
MATT: Where was I? Yeah, it's been weird. I grew up a gamer, playing these games and when we had the opportunity to bring many wonderful talented people together to start toying with the idea of making our own games, we never thought it would be this cool and this much fun. And so, we've been having a really good time with it. And we're really excited about the things that we've released and the things that we're about to release and the things that we're developing that we can't talk about yet. It's gonna be a fun few years. Thank you! (audience cheering) 
LIAM: Hey, Robbie, can I slide in with a quick question for the audience? Anyone who's in cosplay, would you all stand up so we could see ya? 
ROBBIE: Oh yeah. (audience cheering) 
MATT: Whoa! 
MARISHA: Yes. 
LAURA: Oh my God. 
MATT: That's awesome! 
TALIESIN: That's funny. 
LAURA: Hi, Jester! 
TRAVIS: That's great. 
TALIESIN: That's great. 
MARISHA: Oh my God. 
TRAVIS: Good job. Amazing. 
LAURA: Like wings. 
TRAVIS: You look beautiful, San Diego. (audience cheering) 
ROBBIE: You have been expanding the universe in which you've created all those years ago. And you're in the first official steps of playing beyond the world of Exandria with projects like "Midst". What are you most excited about in welcoming in other creators into the "Critical Role" family? 
SAM: Well, first of all, Robbie, thank you for remembering to introduce me. (all laugh) 
ROBBIE: You got your own second set of theme music. What more could you possibly want?
SAM:  You're not gonna replace me as the handsome one. It's not happening. 
ROBBIE: Impossible. 
MARISHA: To be fair, Sam just came from a boy scout initiation. (all laugh) So we weren't sure. (audience cheering) 
SAM: I'm on loan- 
MARISHA: It's a pleasure. 
SAM: From the San Diego Zoo. 
MARISHA: Yeah. I'm gonna do a show there later. 
SAM: The African serval can actually leap three and a half meters. (all laugh) No, expanding our world has been amazing. It's been great to be at a point in our company's growth and confidence in ourself and what we do to be able to invite new people to tell stories with us. Like the group that makes "Midst", they're called Third Person. They're amazing. And yeah, give it up for "Midst". If you haven't heard it yet, you should totally check it out. You can listen as a podcast or watch it on YouTube. But some of us heard the podcast early on, Marisha and I, and really fell in love with it, but also fell in love with the fact that it was these three people who were just friends and they are just telling a story. And that's what we did and that's why we fell in love with them and hope you all get to check it out. And we hope that we get to elevate other creators to tell their stories on our platform too. 
ROBBIE: Awesome. Marisha, this one is- 
MARISHA: Oh shit. 
ROBBIE: You, yeah, it's you. Did I scare you? You're at Comic-Con at a panel. 
MARISHA: I hope everyone here is over 18. 
TRAVIS: The second word outta your mouth. 
ROBBIE: "Candela Obscura". It's, yeah- (audience cheering) It's a first of a kind project for you. It's collaborative of all of the parts of your business. What challenges did that pose, and what are you the most proud of? I've got a follow up question, but do that one first. 
MARISHA: Oh boy. Okay. Yeah, we're- 
LAURA: Doing great, Robbie. Super- 
MARISHA: What? 
LAURA: Nothing. (Marisha laughs) 
MARISHA: We're super excited for "Candela Obscura". It's actually a project that we've been dreaming about since before the pandemic and we put it on hold because we wanted to make sure we could do it justice when we could all get back in a room together. But there was a decent amount of challenges in trying to develop a show at the same time that we were developing a game. And yeah, turns out it's hard to do two at once. 
ROBBIE: So it was difficult. But what inspired you to do it in the first place? 
MARISHA: We're very much in a unique position where producing shows and being the type of players that we are, we knew what kind of a game we wanted to develop to fit the type of play style that we wanted to show, and the type of genre and the horror aspect of it. So, we looked at a lot of other systems and then Darrington Press happened in that time as well. So we ended up pausing, going back to the drawing board and we went, let's just make it ourself, 'cause then we can make it exactly how we want it to be and really cater it to the type of genre and the IP that we wanted to build. 
ROBBIE: That's awesome. Yeah. This one's for Matt. Hi, down there. 
MATT: I already talked. (all laugh) 
ROBBIE: Unlike Sam, it says your name on here. 
MATT: Fine. 
ROBBIE: The Apogee Solstice. 
MATT: Oh, yeah, yeah. 
ROBBIE: I know. Yeah, it's going down. Will we ever find out the fates of Vax, Beau and Caleb? Just a little taste. 
MATT: Well, Campaign Three's story is still being discovered as it unfolds. I think there are opportunities to definitely figure out the fate of Vax as we progress. As far as Beau and Caleb goes, we have a live show coming up in the UK in October that may be revolving around the Mighty Nein and their reaction to the Solstice. So, don't worry, if you can't be at the live show, it will also find its way online afterwards. So you will be able to see what that entails. But yeah, I'm looking forward to... Look, very rarely does a GM have a position where they have multiple campaigns in the same world over time to where you get to cross over threads between campaigns. It's something I've dreamt of since high school. Now that I have the opportunity to do so, you're damn right I'm gonna do it. (all laugh) (audience cheering) In a responsible way that doesn't overshadow the narrative of the current players, but it's still a fun little wink and a nod that we can all enjoy. (audience cheering) 
ROBBIE: This one's for everyone. Simple question. Who was the first person your character thought of after the Apogee Solstice? 
MARISHA: Imogen. (audience cheering) 
ROBBIE: That's the first person you thought of. 
MARISHA: It's true. 
LAURA: I mean, yeah, Laudna. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Imogen. (all laugh) 
MARISHA: Oh. 
TRAVIS: I mean Fearne! Fearne! Oh, shit. Oh, no. 
MARISHA: Still creepy. 
TALIESIN: Imogen and FCG, because they're both the weakest and most destructive at the same time. So something obviously went wrong. 
SAM: That's so nice. 
TRAVIS: You're welcome. 
ASHLEY: Ooh. Hi. (all laugh) Orym. 
ALL: Aw. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. Yeah. 
SAM: I'm just gonna say Dorian, because I want to include you in the conversation. (laughs)
LIAM: Orym was on the job, so he thought of the boss lady, the voice of the Tempest first. (audience cheering) 
MATT: Taryon Darrington. (all laugh) 'Cause wherever he was, he woke up and saw this and went, "Ooh, it's a chance for more adventure!" (all laugh) 
SAM: Did you answer already? 
LAURA: Yeah, I did. I said Laudna. 
SAM: Oh, okay, okay. Say it again though. 
LAURA: Laudna. 
SAM: Oh yeah! (all laugh) 
TRAVIS: That's good.
ROBBIE: All right, let's do it. Let's move fully into campaign three. Are we ready? 
LAURA: I'm so ready, Robbie. Are you? Let's do it. 
ROBBIE: Are you making fun of the way I'm reading this paper? 
LAURA: Not at all. 
ROBBIE: Just a little bit. I can feel it. I'm getting nostalgic. 
MATT: Take us in, Robbie. 
ROBBIE: This is for everyone. It's the OG convention question. What has been your favorite moment of campaign three so far? 
TRAVIS: Ooh. I thought it was gonna be, what would you do with a Klondike bar? (all laugh)
ROBBIE: Wait, with it or for it? This is an important distinction. (all laugh) Nevermind, you don't have to answer that. It's not on the paper. (all laugh) Ooh. Who's gonna go first? 
MATT: I'll jump in here. 
LAURA: Do it. 
SAM: Thanks, friend. 
MATT: Just 'cause the top of my head, not to spoil those who aren't caught up. So I'm gonna be a little dodgy with the details. But we had a guest recently who I adore who they are and they played a very subtle narrative that led to an unexpected turn of events that surprised everybody at the table. I think including themself to a certain degree and led to one of the most dark and emotionally tense moments of this campaign so far that I think irrevocably left a scar on some of the players in an interesting way that I'm excited to explore how that unravels. (audience cheering) 
TRAVIS: What'd he say? 
MATT: Those who know, you know. 
LAURA: So wait, are we avoiding spoilers from the latest episode? 
MATT: I'm trying to a little bit, at least. 
LAURA: Because geez, I think y'all know what I'm going to say here. Outside of that, though, spoilers. I really enjoyed shooting a porn. 
SAM:  Oh yeah. 
MATT: I forgot that happened! 
LAURA: I thought that was a lot of fun. 
MARISHA: Oh, that's right, yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah. I also liked how Fearne turned into a horse and then got stuck in a door coming out of that place. I really enjoyed that. 
LIAM: Well, you stole my porn answer, so. It's hard to beat everything that happened at the Malleus Key when Matt sort of folded three campaigns and my brain in on themselves and put three of Marisha's characters and three of mine within 100 feet of each other. I stopped being able to function. It was impressive long game. Really impressive. 
SAM: It's a little darker, but when Laudna died, that was fun. 
MARISHA: I'll take it! 
SAM: Actually, it was really, it was exciting just leading up to that, because I forget how it worked out, but we had to choose who was going to live and die, which is so much more intense than just someone dying. 
ASHLEY: That was awful. 
SAM: It was awful, but it was fun to watch. 
MARISHA: You all made Ashley flip a coin, which is even more sadistic, in a weird way. 
ASHLEY: Yeah. In my head, I thought that would help, but it was really... Yeah. 
LIAM: Sam, by the way, wants characters to die every week. 
SAM: I do. 
MARISHA: That is true. 
SAM: Except for my own. 
MATT: You literally made a character that will go crazy and try and kill other people in the group. 
SAM: I know. I'd like Critical Role to just be me and Matt. I'll just kill everybody else. 
ASHLEY: Oh man, there's a lot of moments. I think really high up there on the list is probably the threesome, because for Travis and me, we were like, no romancing, no romancing! But Aabria is too powerful. And also, the moment when Imogen got mad at Laudna when she said, you lied! I just remember, yeah, that rocked me. 
TALIESIN: I mean, Matt kind of hit mine with when the group was separated. It was dark and a lot of character growth and frightening and I felt foolish for not figuring things out, so I'll go light. I really liked the romp of robbing that cheesy museum in the middle of nowhere. I've always wanted to rob a cheesy museum. I haven't and I won't, but who doesn't want-- 
ASHLEY: You haven't? 
TALIESIN: Not here. 
ASHLEY:  Fair. 
LIAM: Not since the 5th century. 
MATT: Yep. You haven't done it until you've been caught. 
MARISHA: Another zip code. Yeah, Ashley, kind of also samesies with the Imogen/Laudna tension, because kind of like Sam, I love tension and I love it when characters fight, because I think that's juicy. But also, I will never forget Laudna telling Orym her origin story in the jungle, and also, because the set, it was all jungly and rainy, and that one just stuck in my head. 
LIAM: Nice, quiet moment. 
MARISHA: Yeah, and I think I traumatized you, which was great. 
TRAVIS: I love that we have two if not more characters that if you push them hard enough, they will kill the entire party. So I loved smacking FCG and almost having him go homicidal on the whole group. That was only topped by Imogen turning into a nuclear bomb. So I now have this private desire to, I don't know, irritate Imogen until she kills all of us. (mimics explosion) 
LAURA: I won't rule it out. What about you, Robbie? What was your favorite moment? 
ROBBIE: Leaving, for sure. 
SAM: The toxic workplace? 
LAURA: That was sad. We cried. I cried when you left the table. 
MARISHA: But also, yes. But that was sad. And your little toy ship moment. 
ROBBIE: Oh yeah. This face is how it ended. The face how it started was, ah! It was offended. I loved it. This one's for Matt. This says here, what did it feel like to pull off a plot seven years in the making? You talked a little bit about that, but you're still kind of in the process, right? 
MATT: Still in the process. 
ROBBIE: How do you manage the feelings and the tactics of sewing all those pieces together into a big, beautiful tapestry? 
MATT: When you put it that way, it's real scary. No, it's a combination of something that I don't think I'll ever have the opportunity to do again like this, you know, and didn't think I'd ever have the opportunity, so I'm extremely excited at the prospect, but also put a lot of pressure on myself to do it in a way that is exciting for all of you, and by that way, hoping that it's also exciting for all of you. That's kind of the core of everything. I'm not trying to make these stories for you guys [the audience], sorry. I'm making them for them [the cast], and then hopefully you like it too. So for me, there's a lot of pressure in that regard, but also, that's part of the fun of it, is to sit down and try and problem solve how much sense I can make to bring all these threads together. Over the years, I've been kind of just planting seeds and making comments and doing little fractions of worldbuilding with a loose idea of how they could connect, some of them stronger. Like, I'd love to get to this next campaign, or two campaigns later, if we ever get there, and then now that we're here, I'm like, oh, I actually get to do it! I get to actually open this time capsule that I set six, seven years ago and connect it with this thing. So I'm very excited, and I'm very nervous. 
ROBBIE: I'm glad you're nervous. I'm going to ask you another question. When you were splitting the party, or when the party split, however you want to determine that, what factors came into play when you were deciding how all of that was going to unfold, the splitting of the party?
MATT: Partially, I wanted to find a way to shake up the storyline of the party as a unit, kind of force them to reconcile with the people they've been connecting with and realize, in some cases, what they missed each other via that separation. Also, put them in a position where they felt kind of moor-less and left amongst a world of danger, whether or not there was something or someone to go back to. Those crucible moments allow for some really interesting self-reflection as both player characters and as performers, so wanting to build that moment for both sides was something I was excited to get to. A lot of the choices came from which relationships I wanted to see brew more, people who hadn't had an opportunity to get as close, some people that got close and then didn't really get to dive deeper into that, to kind of force those moments to happen, and it allowed me an opportunity to dig into some characters' backstories that dealt with locations that were farther away from where a lot of this was happening. I got to touch on some of Chetney's backstory, which I remember when he gave me his backstory at the beginning of the campaign, I'm like, I don't know how the hell I'm going to tie any of this in. You're a Santa joke, cool. 
TRAVIS: And it was everything I could've ever hoped for! 
MATT: So yeah, it was a lot of me trying to solve a lot of these problems and go deeper into some of these characters' stories that I would find more challenge getting to explore in this moment through this Apogee Solstice triggering moment. And then a lot of it, some if was scheduling. Some of it was like, oh, you're going on vacation for this week? Okay, I'll put you in this group. Thankfully, that was only like one of those, but primarily, it was wanting to see what y'all would do when you were forced into these little clusters. 
ROBBIE: Taliesin. Yeah, it's you. 
MARISHA: It's jarring.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, it is. 
ROBBIE: What's something Ashton hasn't told anyone? 
SAM: Ooh! Ooh! 
MATT:  Confess. 
TALIESIN: This is bad, because there's a bunch of stuff that is about to, you know, that we talked about. 
SAM: Just say it. 
TALIESIN: I don't want to say that. Okay, what's something? 
MATT: The phrase, "Thank you." 
TALIESIN: I will say, I apologize, this is still mysterious, Ashton has two symbols that they drew on the back of their leather jacket that are just kind of weird dream geometric things that they see in their crazy technicolor dreams. Ashton has figured out what one of them is, so is starting to figure out that, you'll see there's four triangles in a row, two up and two down on the back, with a little circle. If you're clever, you might know too now. 
MARISHA: We don't see your back! 
SAM: It's imagination. 
TALIESIN: Or it's the die holder that's literally sitting next to my table. You turn it 90 degrees, and there's the back. 
MARISHA: I don't see you. 
TALIESIN: Okay. 
MATT: If you pick up an Ashton dice guardian today, you too can see the symbols he's talking about! 
TALIESIN: The art's out there. 
ROBBIE: Liam. So, we touched on it a little bit before. What was it like to stay in character as Orym while you have all these other characters of yours in the space? While Vax is flying to in to save Keyleth, Caleb's incapacitated feet away? What sort of challenge does that present? 
LIAM: I don't know, did I stay in character? I think I melted through 50% of it. I'm worried about Vax. I found myself really frustrated with the wizard. I was like, get in the game, man! Get the collar off! I felt like Orym held his own. He did all right. I don't know, I feel like I'm reliving that moment now. 
TRAVIS: Critiquing your own character is a special kind of strange. Get in the game, man! 
SAM: It's like parenthood. 
LIAM: They're my babies, and one of them is in a small, black sphere. 
ROBBIE: This next one's for Marisha. Did you immediately know what Laudna's Form of Dread was going to look like as you were creating her in your mind's eye? 
MARISHA: I did, yes. It was all, what is Travis most afraid of? I will start from there. I'm kind of only a little joking. With Delilah being her patron, I wanted it to feel reflective of Delilah, so the mourning veil and Delilah in the later stages, I wanted it to represent Delilah's grief over Silas, so that's why she kind of looks like this mourning Victorian woman. And also that's what Travis is afraid of most, is creepy, spooky Victorian witches. 
TRAVIS: I hate it so much. I hate it so much. Old Victorian dresses with lace! 
MARISHA: Exactly. 
TRAVIS: Reaching and stuff. Man. 
MARISHA: It's just so fun! 
TRAVIS: I'd just burn the house down. Just burn it down. 
SAM: He hates dresses. 
TRAVIS: Nm-nm. Nm-Nmm! 
MARISHA: So satisfying. Nom, nom, nom. 
ROBBIE: This next one's for Ashley. Yeah, caught you. 
ASHLEY: Hi. 
MATT: Good morning. 
ASHLEY: I thought I was going to get away with not having to answer anything, but why? Hi.
ROBBIE: The paper wants to know. What were the key differences in playing a character like Fearne as opposed to some of the characters that you've played in the past? What was a key difference in your approach to choosing this character that everyone loves so much? 
ASHLEY: Oh boy, I think being home and being able to play full time definitely made a really big difference. Sometimes I think about, I wish I could've been home more for Yasha, because I feel like, I don't know, I still feel like there was more to explore there. But I feel like with Fearne, that is just me wanting to, I wanted to just have fun at the table and just sort of be able to act out on the weird things that pop up in my head, which, maybe only a small percentage makes it out, which is a little terrifying. 
TRAVIS: Remove the filter. 
ASHLEY: Yeah, but Fearne's been really fun to play. 
ROBBIE: Well, that's a pretty good segue for our question for everyone. Your characters that you've created for campaign three, is there an aspect of them that is 100% like you and an aspect of them that is the opposite, that you're exploring something that is in no way like yourself? Why are you laughing? I am so scared about your answer. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, because I totally hate Santa. No, I'm just kidding. 
SAM: I think for me, Fresh Cut Grass, like me, is always smiling. But unlike me, he actually is always happy. It's not just a carefully constructed facade. 
AUDIENCE: We love you! 
SAM: Oh, thanks. 
MATT: Oh, buddy! That’s the most relatable thing I've ever heard you say. 
LAURA: I feel like that is FCG, though. Yeah, you're just a ticking time bomb, Sam? Is that what you're saying? 
SAM: You don't know. 
LAURA: Oh, okay. 
LIAM: Could be today. (laughs) 
SAM: It's for the group. It's for the group? 
LAURA: Everyone. 
MATT: Yeah, everyone answer. 
SAM: What's like your character, what's not like your character? I mean, Travis does have a one in 100 chance of dying every night. (laughs) 
MARISHA: And he loves crush velour jumpsuits.
TRAVIS: Juicy. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughs) 
LAURA: Man. 
SAM: Do you like horses? (laughs) 
LAURA: Unlike Imogen, I am not good at riding horses. I feel like, like her though, I get overwhelmed in crowds. This doesn't count. (laughs) But yeah, and if I'm walking around a crowd, I get really, really nervous. What is this, like revealing hour? 
SAM: Yeah, this is-- 
LAURA:  So here's my deepest darkest secret. 
TALIESIN: Mine is too dark. I'm waiting towards the end. 
MARISHA: Yours is too dark? 
TALIESIN: Mine’s weird. 
MARISHA: Do we wanna end with you then? 
TALIESIN: I figured. 
SAM: Let's go there. 
TRAVIS: Get in there with the dark stuff. 
TALIESIN: Oh boy, this is what you get for making a D&D character with your therapist. 
TRAVIS: Uh oh. 
MARISHA: Oh yeah. 
TRAVIS: Ear muffs, kids. 
TALIESIN: Ashton and I are the same because we are both, I don't wanna say haunted, we both deal with a weird emotional vacuum in our past. This little black hole where nothing escapes and nothing either goes in or out too. If you have one, you know the feeling. We are different in that I do not process my issues through anger at all. 
MARISHA: That's true, yeah. 
TALIESIN: I'm not really, it's very rare for me to have that, but I know a lot of friends who are like, that is their go-to. 
MARISHA: No, you're like eternally chill. 
TALIESIN: Thank you. It's happened like three times. 
MARISHA: Whenever you get frustrated, I know that it's bad. 
TALIESIN: Horribly wrong. 
MARISHA: Yeah. So, yeah. I feel like kind of, I'll jump off of that 'cause I feel like Laudna's kind of adjacent, and I kind of wanted to, and as I get older, I try to be more aware of what is actually a real problem that I should stress and worry about and freak out about, and what is kind of not a big deal. And I think Laudna, because she has had so much tragedy in her past with a lot of stuff currently, she's like, the bar is low on this one. Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
MARISHA: And I'm not like her because I don't have necrotic flesh. I guess. Yeah. 
ASHLEY:  Fair. 
ROBBIE: Yet. 
MARISHA: Yet. (laughs) 
TALIESIN: Give it time. 
LIAM: I think that Orym is, in social settings, is quiet and hesitant, and I'm like that a lot when I'm not with this group of noodles. But he's also really agile, and I hurt myself on a regular basis, so that's where we differ. 
MATT: I'd say like the NPCs of Exandria, I have a lifetime so far of experiences and emotions. (laughs) Unlike the NPCs of Exandria, I physically exist in Comic-Con right now, so. (cheers) Though, now that I look out in the audience, maybe that's not correct right now either, so. 
LAURA: We're in the astral sea. 
ROBBIEL This next one's for Laura. 
LAURA: Who? 
SAM: Laura. 
ROBBIE: It's you, Laura. 
SAM: Yeah. 
ROBBIE: It's a little echo-y. 
LAURA: Hi. 
ROBBIE: Imogen has, yeah, has been on quite an arc lately. Let's see. You've been checking in your family ties at Ruidus. You've been going back home to see your father. Finding romance. (cheers) What has all of that taught her so far, and now that she's more at ease with the circlet stopping outside thoughts? 
LAURA: Oh man. I feel like Imogen can finally find herself. That Circlet was everything. Up until that point, I think she had been completely on board with like, let's just end it, make it go away. I don't like having this power. I can't stand it. I don't know who I am anymore. And now that she has it back on, it's like she's almost able to forget all the negative things she was hearing all the time. It's like after a little bit, you can just pretend again. So yeah, I think she's, I've tried to show it a little bit, but she's definitely more comfortable being who she is. You know? She's not as introverted as she used to be. Is it working? I don't know. I did it, but you know? 
ROBBIE: That's great. This one's for Travis. 
TRAVIS: Huh? 
ROBBIE: Yeah. 
MARISHA: Right? 
TRAVIS: I like wood. (laughs) 
ROBBIE: I'm gonna read it as written. For as experienced and old as Chetney is. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, talk to me, baby. 
ROBBIE: How confident does he feel about the task at hand with the Ruby Vanguard? 
TRAVIS: We are screwed. (laughs) This is awesome. I'm 400 plus years old, and we're trying to save the world. We are doomed to fail. But I'm gonna go out with a bang and a rocking horse in my pocket. (laughs) We are great. We're gonna find allies. I'm sure we're gonna find 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 vestiges before we, you know, they'll just be lying out there for us to find. And I think I'll talk to Nana Mori and make a wish to become 300 years younger. And yeah, we got a whole plan for this thing. It's gonna be great. 
LAURA: Can you do that? 
TRAVIS: I don't know, but I just decided that's what I'm gonna do. 
SAM: That's a good idea. 
TALIESIN: That's a really good idea. 
TRAVIS: And then I'll sleep with everybody. (laughs) (cheers) 
MARISHA: Thought that already happened. 
TRAVIS: You won't be able to resist. 
MARISHA: Chet is just like the Genghis Khan of Exandria. His protege are everywhere. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, but I lost the hair. My charisma fell by one point. (laughs) 
ROBBIE: Sam. 
SAM: Yes, Robbie? 
ROBBIE: What was it like to say goodbye to FRIDA? 
SAM: Aw. Well, Christian is just such a wonderful person. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, love for Christian. 
SAM: Such a great player and such a sweet boy. It was so fun. You know, when he introduced his character in those episodes, at first I was like, oh, that's cool. Another robot. But then it was so interesting and weird to be like, I think I'm falling in love with this hunk of metal. It was so fun and great to play with Christian that way and with FRIDA. And saying goodbye was really hard. I wanted to stay behind, but I feel like they need me since I'm the only God person in the party. (laughs) So, but yeah, I hope we get to see FRIDA again. I hope Fresh Cut Grass gets to. And the campaign with FRIDA or maybe if they both die, maybe they can be melted down and be made into something together. (laughs) 
ASHLEY: Wow. 
SAM: Like some armor or like a chair. 
TRAVIS: Wow. Wow. (laughs) 
SAM: Ooh! Maybe that's how we end the campaign full circle. It's a chair, like a living chair.
TRAVIS: That's the only metal I would consider working with. (laughs) 
MATT: Oh my God. 
TALIESIN: I was just thinking of a cursed sword that argues with itself. It doesn't even need anyone to be involved. 
MATT: That's true, there aren't a lot of magical legendary weapons that have two personalities in them, so. 
SAM: If there was, Travis would find it. (laughs) 
ROBBIE: This one's a little off the topic of C3. This is for Liam and Sam. Has, and why, I know it has, why has TikTok made you both such a menace at the office? 
SAM: This is going out on TikTok, so. 
TRAVIS: No, no! No, stop it. No! 
TALIESIN: Stop it. 
LIAM: I just did it because you went away, and then they made me do it. And I was scared and I'm still scared now.
SAM: I can tell you this. The cast hates it. Just hates it. Look at her reaction. This person hates me right now. Just absolutely hates me. It's horrible. I love it. (cheers) 
ROBBIE: This is the last question for everyone before we open things up to the community Q&A. Your story that you've told is full of huge moments, epic moments, set peace moments that everyone grabs onto and remembers. From a personal standpoint, as a player, what are some of the small little micro moments that have stuck with you the most over the years? 
MARISHA: Great question. 
TALIESIN: Oh, we're just going randomly? 
TRAVIS: There's so many years that are-- 
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm very proud of what the fuck is up with that. 
MARISHA: Yeah, that's a good one. 
TALIESIN: We gotta do that again soon. 
MARISHA: That's a good one. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, very proud of that. 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
TRAVIS: Asking my wife if I could kiss her in campaign was a big one. 
MARISHA: Aw, that was sweet. 
LAURA: Baby. 
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
LAURA: In all of our years of marriage, I don't think I've ever seen him turn that red. 
MARISHA: I am pretty partial to the cannonball contest in campaign one. 
ASHLEY: Oh yeah! 
MARISHA: That one was very fun. 
TALIESIN: I didn't know we were going that far back. 
MARISHA: Yeah, any of 'em. Oh. We've been doing this for so long. 
TRAVIS: So long. 
TALIESIN: Campaign three, but carry on. 
TRAVIS: 400 years. 
ASHLEY: I'm gonna, I mean, this was kind of a big moment, but I'm gonna go with the Beau Yasha date. That was amazing. (cheers) And, okay. In this campaign when Matt did the goats and he was Fabio goat. (laughs) Still one of my favorite noises you've ever made. It was just one little meh. (laughs) 
MARISHA: That's right, the goats. 
LIAM: I wasn't gonna answer this, but it just popped into my head because of that. I'd like to give, Matt, you some love also for role playing as grass so well. (cheers) 
MARISHA: Role playing grass. 
LIAM: That was another good one. But the first thing that came to mind was writing you a storybook and reading it to you. 
LAURA: Ugh! So good. 
MATT: That was actually gonna be my choice too. Here's the thing about these games is we have fun and we get to do this together, but some of my favorite moments, and it happens sometimes overtly and sometimes you maybe don't notice it or it's more behind the scenes, but everyone's looking for ways to kind of make little gifts for each other. Whether it be just little story moments or wooden things at the table. And that's just one of those exemplary moments of like, yeah, we're playing a game, and yes, this is a show, but this is a friend showing love to the rest of the friends at the table, and I love those moments. 
LAURA: I was overwhelmed. 
LIAM: We get along. 
SAM: Yeah. I think for me too, it's less the moments in the game and more just the moments where I can see my friends. Like when Marisha does her this thing. 
MARISHA: My chair perch. 
SAM: Or when I glance over and Ashley-- (cheers and laughs) 
TRAVIS: It's like DEFCON 2. When she crouches, everything's bad. 
MARISHA: Shit's getting real, yeah. 
SAM: But yeah, watching Laura and Ashley draw dicks is always fun. You guys, you don't get to see 'em, but they're really funny and badly drawn. 
LIAM: I like it when you sneeze and Ashley tells you to stop it. 
SAM: Yes. (laughs) Stop it! 
TALIESIN: The entire time being in a relationship with Vex'ahlia, every moment of that was nuts. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
TALIESIN: Every graph paper moment of that. I can't even, yeah. 
ROBBIE: All right, you guys ready to open this up to the audience? 
TRAVIS: Let's go. Let's do it. 
SAM: I like the audience, let's do that. How do they--? Oh, they're all over there. In a place where we can't see them. And here, and here. 
MARISHA: Look at the monitors. And there? 
TRAVIS: Multiple locations. 
SAM: I don't know, I can't see anything. 
TALIESIN: There are no monitors. 
LAURA: Hi! 
AUDIENCE: Hi. Just really quickly wanted to say my name is Caleb because of Caleb Widogast, and I just wanna say thank you so, so much guys. 
MARISHA: Aw. Thank you. (cheers) 
SAM: Amazing. 
AUDIENCE: Also, you have the flower I gave you guys, and I appreciate it. My question is, you kind of answered this question about Orym, but what, for Liam, what aspect of Caleb Widogast would you want to be in your life the most? 
LIAM: What aspect? 
AUDIENCE: Aspect. 
LIAM: Unlimited reality alteration. (laughs) Letting my imagination do anything it wanted. I miss the wizard. 
MATT: Aw. Good question, Caleb. Wow. 
LAURA: You look amazing. 
MARISHA: Oh, hello. Hi. 
MATT: Hello. 
AUDIENCE: Thank you. My question is for Marisha. So Marisha, you've talked a little bit about how Laudna came to you in a dream, well, nightmare. But I wanted to know specifically what that conversation was like with Matt when you first decided that, you decided Laudna was gonna be a body on the Sun Tree. 
MARISHA: Yeah. (laughs) Yeah, that was fun. It kind of went in steps where it was like, oh, I think I wanna play a dead girl. Ooh, what if she was in Whitestone when everything went down? Or what if she has a connection to (gasps), what if she was on the tree? So it kind of went into these, went through the stages. And then it was actually originally, I was talking about, because when you're a hollow one, your age stops. So for a little bit, I was like, oh, what if I'm the Pike dummy who was canonically a little girl, and she's a 50 year old woman in a little girl's body? And then we had a long conversation, which ended with that, which is like, this is 40 layers of problematic that I probably shouldn't commit to for the next three years of this campaign. 
MATT: Yeah. 
MARISHA: So I pivoted to the Vex dummy instead, which was equally as juicy. And I'll never forget when Laura put those pieces together in the game 'cause that was epic. 
MATT: I distinctly recall when you first pitched it to me, I went, "That's really messed up." 
MARISHA: Yeah. (cast and audience laugh) 
MATT: It's very cool and complicated and be aware that might lead to some interesting agency elements down the road depending on player choice. But as long as you're okay with that and you went, "Yeah". 
MARISHA: Yeah. 
MATT: And I went, "All right, apparently we're cool, okay." 
MARISHA: Yeah, it was fun. (laughs) 
AUDIENCE: It's working. Hi, everyone. 
ALL: Hello. Hi. 
AUDIENCE: What's up, my man? (laughs) This question's for the dude on the far left. My man, Matt. 
MATT: Hey, how you doing? 
AUDIENCE: Yeah, you're looking good today. 
MATT: You too, my friend. You too. 
AUDIENCE: Okay, my question is, what's the best cosplay you've seen of a character from the show? 
MATT: Oh man. It's tough to pick, partially 'cause there's so many. And as a person who has been doing cosplay for the majority of their adult life, I'm always just excited to see good costumes. And then the fact that they're from things we made up together is like, "What is going on? This is so weird in full circle." Oh. I've seen some that are very accurate, like extremely accurate, and that's incredible. I've seen some that are some amazing like interpretations and like artistic takes on them that are really incredible. I will say I did see one video, I think it was of a... Outside of the US, there was a group that did a convention, and someone did this amazing Matron of Ravens' costume as part of their sketch that like seemed to be so big and like unfold in this way that it was just like, that is impressive. And I can feel how cumbersome that is for the performer. So that makes it even more impressive for me. 
LAURA: Wow. 
MATT: I think that was the one that really blew my mind, partially 'cause I, having been in costumes like that, I'm like both, "That's incredible" and "I feel you." (audience laughs) Suffer for your craft. 
AUDIENCE: Thank you. 
MATT: Thank you! 
AUDIENCE:  Hi, my name's Von. 
ALL: Hello. Hey, Von. Hi, Von. 
AUDIENCE: Travis, real quick. 
TRAVIS: What up? 
AUDIENCE: Please consider Percy with gloves of missile snaring at cornerback and Beau to center with Sentinel. (Laura laughs) She'd be nice to plug up blitzes up the middle. 
TRAVIS: Yo! (audience laughs) That's a good suggestion. You won't get any inside blitzes. She'll just stop 'em dead in their tracks. Bro, yes! (audience cheers) 
MATT: Oh no. 
TRAVIS: 10 out of 10 suggestion. 
AUDIENCE: Thank you. Okay. (audience laughs) Okay, now for my stupid question. What would your smell-inspired robot name be? (Laura laughs) 
LAURA: Our smell inspired robot. 
TRAVIS: Smell inspired...
SAM: Robot. 
TALIESIN: Like Fresh Cut Grass. 
AUDIENCE: Like oatmeal and apple... 
SAM: What's your scent of choice? 
TRAVIS: Bourbon sawdust. (audience cheers) 
MATT: Pretty good. 
SAM: Undercarriage. (Travis laughs)
TRAVIS:  In-betweenus. (cast laugh) Ugh. 
LAURA: Bacon. 
SAM: Bacon? Pocket bacon. 
LAURA: Pocket bacon.
SAM: Who we got? 
ALL: Hello. Hello! Hello, oh! 
AUDIENCE: How goes it? How goes it? My name's Adair. 
MATT: Hey Adair. 
LAURA: Hello. You look epic. 
AUDIENCE: This question's for Laura. 
LAURA: Oh, hi. 
AUDIENCE: Yes, hey girl. So, you guys are friends. Everybody does the D&D. When you go home, off on the weekends or whatever, what gives you brain rot right now for C3? Like the thing that you have to talk to somebody that's not Travis and you just wanna gush about? 
LAURA: Oh. 
TRAVIS: Why can't it be me? (audience and cast laugh) 
LAURA: Um. Oh. Yes, Laudna. I didn't talk to anybody about that. And I wanted to so bad. I have brain rot stuff about what my mom's motivations are and I can't ask anybody. And it drives me crazy 'cause, yeah, that. (Matt laughing) 
TRAVIS: She's been keeping secrets. Secrets, y'all, just so you know. We used to like gab on the way home and, "Bleh, what about this?" "Oh, that was so much fun." And then she kinda like just put the lid on it in C3. And then turned into an atom bomb (Laura laughs) and all this other stuff. And I was like, "She's got secrets." (audience and cast chuckle) 
AUDIENCE: Thank you. 
MATT: Thank you. 
AUDIENCE: Hello. 
MATT: Hello! 
LAURA: Hello, darling. 
AUDIENCE: I'm Maxim. I'm from Belgium, a forever DM as usual. 
TRAVIS: Nice.
AUDIENCE: My question is for Matt. 
MATT: Hello. 
AUDIENCE: What is your inner core rule as a DM you will never stray off from? 
MATT: The core rule that I'll never stray from? 
AUDIENCE: Yes. 
MATT: That if a rule prevents the players from having fun at the table, it's not worth holding onto. (audience cheers) And to clarify, we have a lot of people at this table that are, "You wanna do something and it doesn't work in the rules." But we also enjoy the game aspect of it and kind of understand and respect that sometimes we're pushing a boundary that's not there or sometimes the rules doesn't allow it. And it's okay for me to say no and kinda be the arbiter as any GM would be. But if a rule is truly preventing somebody from like really enjoying a moment, it's not worth being a hard ass about it. And we'll find a way to bend it or find a way to get around it or how to utilize other rules to make it make sense in the moment to where we can still let them have a moment. And I know there are times, in the past especially, where I've been more of a hard ass on it than I wanted to be. 'Cause partially, it's I felt the responsibility of the internet looking at me going, "You better not play this game wrong." And there's a lot of people that complain when I get rules wrong. And there were times where I felt like it was my responsibility to hold it by the book. And then I did that and then it didn't feel right. So yeah, that's my hard rule. Play it by the rules until it's not fun and then break 'em. (Laura laughs) (audience cheers) Good question.
AUDIENCE: (Matt and Laura laugh) So every week we go through a roller coaster of emotions and then we hear the heartbreaking words, "Matt, back to you." (cast and audience laughing)
MARISHA: Amazing. Yes. My question is for real life arcane trickster and god of the ad read, Sam Riegel. What is your vision of Riegelmania? 
SAM: Riegelmania? 
LAURA: Wow. 
AUDIENCE: Make it happen, Riegelmania, 2023. 
SAM: I gotta trademark that. No, I've enjoyed... Sorry, I've enjoyed the last several years of... I know that sometimes my ads are fun and sometimes they're real stupid and I know that sometimes you don't like 'em. 
LAURA: What are you talking about? I always love 'em. 
SAM: No, like everyone here. 
LAURA: Okay. 
SAM: I'm not just singling out you. You guys too. But it's the one thing I look forward to the most in the week. (cast members laughing) It's this weird creative outlet that like no matter what else happens in the game, like whether I'm like, "Oh, I should've done that different," or, "Oh, I could've played that scene better," or been better in that battle. At least every week I've got like this two and a half minutes where I just get to just blah. Whatever's in my mind for that week. And it's so fun. And thank you for letting me do it, you guys. And also thank you. (audience cheers) Thank you to our advertisers for letting me do it 'cause I'm sure they get yelled at by their bosses. (cast members laugh) But yeah. 
LAURA: I watched the clip of Ashley being Gale (laughs) so much. 
SAM: Gotta get Gale back. 
LAURA: I just love it. 
ASHLEY: I think my favorite thing that you did in the ads was when one of the characters was slowly turning into a sunflower. (Laura laughs) 
MARISHA:: Yeah That's was a good one. 
LIAM: And you told us, "Some of the bits are for the audience and some of them are for me."
SAM: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. 
TRAVIS: Now I wanna know what Riegelmania is going to be. Stay tuned. 
LAURA: Oh, hello. 
AUDIENCE: Hello, my name is Ben. 
MATT: Hey Ben. 
AUDIENCE: My real life hero was always Robin Williams and when we lost him, I never thought I would find another hero, but I wanted to say thank you all for filling that void for me. (audience applauds) But I wanna put some pressure on Travis and ask you, sir. Sir, are we ever gonna get a hint or anything about whose Fjord's parents are? 
ALL: Oh. Ooh. 
TRAVIS: Well, you know, there's that animated series. (Laura gasps) (audience cheers) (Marisha laughs) And we're certainly doing that live show in London. So I think it's safe to say we are not done with those characters by a long shot. (audience cheers) So as long as you guys are interested, we got more stories to tell. (audience cheers) 
SAM: But it's Chetney. The answer is Chetney. 
TRAVIS: Chetney, it's Chetney, yeah. (cast and audience laughing) 
AUDIENCE: Hi, I'm Sherry. 
ALL: Hi Sherry. Hi Sherry. 
AUDIENCE: Shout out to all the guest players. I'm a big fan of them. 
ALL: Yes. Yes. Yes! So my question is for Matt. Are there any guest characters who you would like to explore their storylines more? 
MATT: Ooh. Ooh. Oh man. I mean, all of them. 
SAM: Robbie is right over there. (Sherry giggles) Right over there. (cast and audience laugh)
TRAVIS: No pressure. 
ROBBIE: You haven't killed me off screen yet, so... 
MATT: Oh, I got plans for you, boy. (audience cheers) (Matt laughs) I wouldn't even consider you a guest character. You're like cast adjacent, so... (cast and audience laugh) 
ROBBIE: That was the sweetest, most insulting thing anyone's ever said to me. (cast and audience laugh) That's why I love you. 
SAM: You're like family, but you know, not really. (cast and audience laugh) 
ROBBIE: That feels right. Was that really the last question? (cast and audience laugh) Hey, how about a round of applause for everyone who asked a question this evening? (audience cheers) They were excellent. Before we wrap things up completely and say goodbye to our cast, we would like to ask all of you if you feel like it, to head on down to the floor and check out our partners at Penguin Random House. They're at booths 1514, 1515, and 1623 and Dark Horse at 2615. That just about wraps things up. Please, from the bottoms-- 
MATT: Robbie? 
ROBBIE: --of your souls. 
LAURA: Oh, wait. Oh, wait. 
ROBBIE: Give it up, for one more thing that Matt's telling me to say. 
MATT: Okay. To answer your question, the finality. Shakäste. (Laura gasps) 

MARISHA: Shakäste! 
TRAVIS: Shakäste. 
LAURA: Shakäste. 
ROBBIE: Can I now? 
MATT: Now go. 
ROBBIE: Give it up for the cast of Critical Role! (audience cheers)