List of Transcripts




This article is a stub.  Please help the Critical Role wiki by expanding it, adding pictures, or improving existing text.

Posted without formatting or speakers because that's how it was uploaded to YouTube. Needs someone to go through and add the speakers so it's actually legible, or check back with YouTube to see if there's an actual transcript now.


Contents

1 Pre-Show
2 Part I
3 Break
4 Part II


Pre-Show[]
MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of The Menagerie, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play the Daggerheart open beta. You know, Bell Hells will return next week. We have our live show on Saturday this weekend, and for the sanity of production, the rate of release and everything, we're taking our Daggerheart one shot tonight. Three shot now I guess, keeps going. But nevertheless, today we'll be playing Daggerheart version 1.4.2. A little light update that was released earlier this week, but Bells Hells will be back next Thursday if we don't see you at the Greek on Saturday. But check out the change log and download the new materials on Daggerheart.com. And you can also watch the VOD of my Q&A with Spenser Starke, lead designer of the game for a walkthrough of the updates and some questions that we took from the audience in our community. So be sure to let us know what you think via our official surveys as you try out Daggerheart. We're getting closer and closer to finishing this wonderful thing and it's already coming along so well and we would love you to continue to help us shape that as you wanna play it. So that is my hook intro. Travis, you have an announcement? 
TRAVIS: Oh yeah. The Legend of Vox Machina is back, baby! It's out right now, you can watch all 12 epis-- no, I'm fucking with you. I'm fucking with you. 
MATT: My heart jumped into my throat. 
TRAVIS: I'm gonna kill us all in this fucking beta! No, it's amazing. Season three premieres October 3rd, this fall in Prime Video. You could check out a little sneak peek
of our new opening titles. Did I get you too? Yeah, for a second I was like "Wait, what?"
Ashley Johnson. We got new opening titles. They're out there on the internet. Check 'em out. It's on our Instagram.
Now or during the break or whenever you wanna see it. It'll be on the break too. But it's really hot. New music from Neal Acree.
Amazing stuff from Studio Rev. It's awesome. Season three is gonna be a baller. Can't wait to show you what we've been doing.
Yeah. It's so good. It's so good, y'all. Ugh. All righty. So Marisha.
Yeah. As Matt, you kind of already covered it. We're doing Menagerie tonight because we have the Greek show on Saturday,
which is the 15th. So yes. Bells Hells will return next Thursday.
So if you can't catch it live at the Greek this Saturday, don't worry. June 20th, 7:00 PM Pacific on Twitch and YouTube.
We will have, am I...? You're casting. You're casting.
Yeah. I'm getting them done tomorrow before the live show, but it doesn't matter. Yes.
And Beacon members, Beacon members will get instant access to the VOD
as well as like, we're gonna try something new. We're doing like a special live show edited version
that will be exclusive to Beacon. So basically it won't be in the overlay
like you normally see us. It'll be like a more cinematic cut, kind of like what the Candela Obscura live show was. Experimentation. So yes,
you can check out that version, that's exclusive to Beacon members, but regular version will be out
as per usual in the usual time. And also we'll be doing a cool down for it
as well at the live show. The Beacon members will get as well. So... Hey, jazz hands. Great job.
Rakshasa. Laura, you're up next. 
LAURA: I'm up next. Hey, guess what? What? We have merch.
Well, I'll talk about this one first. I'm going out of order, but we have this. Are you wearing the merch? I'm wearing the merch.
I was chilly and this warmed me up. It's our Oracle of the Moon Tarot crew neck sweatshirt.
Oh, there's a gradient. Ooh. Featuring art by Caemiel Lilium and additional design by Jordyn Torrence.
I love you Jordyn. Jordyn, you're the best. In addition to that, we've also got this Oracle,
I don't know if I'm holding it the right way, Oracle of the Moon-- Just cover up your face. Tarot blanket. Oh, it's so rad.
It's featuring card art by Caemiel Lilium and Frei. And additional art designed by Aaron Monroy.
I love you Aaron. Yay. The back. It's so cozy. It's really soft. Right?
I'm gonna order this at break. Is that the Hunger Sacrifice card that you're wearing? I'm wearing...
Oh yes I am. Yeah, look at that. And also, you guys, guess what? What? At the Greek,
if you're there, you might get to check out some sneaky peeky merch
that will be available in the merch booth, including this. Yo. Whoa!
It's Laudna's dreaded blue picture. Sorry, baby, this is gonna be available next week,
but it'll be at the Greek, dadadadun. It's by artist. Nope, that's a lie.
Scroll down a little bit. It's by artist Natalie Hall. I love you Natalie.
And then in addition to that, we also, okay, I love these, these are our half crew socks.
I love our socks. We have more socks now. We got Bells Hell socks. We got Mighty Nein socks.
We got Vox Machina socks and we got CR socks. And they come in a four pack. Dodododo! Are those like a cotton blend?
Laura: Feel 'em! They're so comfy. And they're the ones that are fat on the bottom. Oh, yes. These are good.
They're really good socks. Elena Harris artist. I love you, Elena. Which, do we need to keep these here?
No, I'm gonna steal these. I'm gonna take these ones. These are great. Thank you, Laura. Ashley.
Oh my gosh. I have an announcement to make. Okay, so we are thrilled that for Pride Month we are,
sorry, we are donating, sorry, sorry, sorry. We are donating. I'm just really excited.
She's a profesh, she's got this, right, Wilma? We are donating 10% of all regular proceeds across all our shops
to Outright International. So this does not include licensed products
and products that already support charity. But everything else will help support
this great organization. They are so awesome. Outright International is one of our longstanding partners
at Critical Role Foundation, which works to protect the rights of LGBTQIA+ people worldwide.
So if anything in... You got this, you got this.
If anything in the shop has caught your, I don't know, I'm really hot. If anything in the shop has caught your eye,
now is a great time to check it out. Okay, I'm all done. Wonderful. Check it out.
Like a good neighbor... That being the case,
I think let's go ahead and jump into tonight's episode of
The Menagerie. The menage a trois! It is The Menagerie, I'm sorry. The menage a trois.

Part I[]
MATT: So, last we left off. Sorry. Oh, that's right. Oh, we're going straight in.
Oh yeah. Fucking pros over here. Sorry. Yeah, there's opening titles y'all. We go right in.
The Menagerie, after encountering a strange new seed of the Seep,
this strange corrupting magical darkness within the Emerald Sky.
You were given a hint that the person who was responsible for planting this within that vast verdant forest
was a figure that you recognized from your hometown, Bunnie, of Lolvale. You went to that town, the red crystal city of sin.
And there within that space of boisterous commerce and play and debauchery, you found this figure, this Dyson figure
who told you under duress that the people that hired him to do this, no personal reason,
it was the Kroatona family. Kroatona family.
Who are one of the various factions of power within the city who own the casino
and have other vested interests in some of the more small recent mine constructions.
But, you and the rest of your troop went to find out exactly who and why.
You went through the sewers of the city, busted through the wall into the hideout
of the Kroatona family, and did battle with Mortimer himself, as well as his sister Gamma and a number of their compatriots.
At a certain point, and the acquisition of a gem from around his throat, you fled back out whence you came,
as it seemed that help and backup was called by his sister Gamma.
Most of you managed to get past it, most of you. But unfortunately,
Bunnie and Sweetpea were unable to traverse the grate barricade.
As in the barricade that is of grate. (laughs) I had to specify there,
you know. And in trying to flee that direction and dazzle the relatively angry
cluster of goons following Mortimer, you were captured, knocked unconscious and awoken a short time later.
Both of you tied to chairs in that very same basement hideout where you did battle. There's the massive corpulent,
swollen frog form of Mortimer Kroatona, sits before you,
the rest of you have fled back through the sewers, worried about what may be befalling your friends.
So, let's go ahead and first jump in with you four.
We're gonna go in with Sir Dante, Xarlo, Kexon, and Oppy.
As you have now run down the waterlogged sewers heading back towards where you came.
You're huffing, you are running as hard as you can, splashing through, darting into the shadows. And as you all begin to collect towards the ladder
that led you down here initially, you begin to realize that your compatriots are not with you.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. We're missing two. What do we do? What do we do?
We leave 'em. Okay. No we don't! It's time to cut bait. Let's go. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
We need a plan. We're not leaving anyone behind. Do we go back in there?
I don't think I'm even paying attention, right, because this gem on a chain that I stole has sort of got an arresting property to it.
Looking at it in front of you. I don't know, we need a plan. Right, okay. So we gotta get them out of there.
We could either go back the way we came or we could go top side and try and find some kind of an entrance
down the way we saw the goons come down. But that feels like a lot of backtracking. They both feel like backtracking.
Everything has to be backtracking. You left someone behind. Of course there's going to be some backtracking. You're right. You're right.
Well we gotta go back. What do you think, Xarlo? I don't know.
Mkay. Oh, you put it- Wait, wait, wait. What are ya you putting that on for? Oh, too late. You put it on and the magic kind of pulses
through the chain and across your neck. And the flash of history
or capability of this gem crosses into your mind. Oh... Whoa!
There are sheets, there are sheets. And I'm gonna read it out.
Above the table. "Innervation gem. When you consume this gem, you gain the following attributes
until you choose to drop this form on your next rest. You're twice your size.
Your strength, agility, and finesse rolls have advantage. Your physical attacks deal plus one to 10 damage.
Whenever you succeed on an action roll with Hope, the GM gains a Fear. When this form drops, you regurgitate the gem
and roll a 1d6. On a five or six, the gem cracks and is no longer usable." I love it.
Oh, it was a steroids. So- Yeah, just a little juicing. Right, so the to-- He could've gotten so big.
Froggy was juicing. He was juicing. Oh, I had a backup mini that he didn't get to use 'cause you stole it before he could eat it.
We didn't see him juicing. That was the pre-juiced form. It was pre-juice form. Wow. So you have this juice.
That's good. That's really good, okay. Maybe we go back in there and you just,
eat it. (giggles) All right, well... We don't know where the door is from...
That's not a plan, no. Well if we figured out where the top side entrance is,
we could say that we found the gem, which clearly they think it was stolen.
They don't necessarily know it was us. And we could try and make a trade for our people. They probably think it's us. They do.
And we don't know where the door is. We don't. Right. We do know where this door is.
Yes, I suppose, but-- Which we just came from. So our plan is to turn 'round?
And fuck shit up? Could be. The shortest distance between A and B is a straight line.
We could go up and look for the door down. Excuse you. But then all the guards
and stuff are gonna see us up there. Yeah. I mean they gotta die. Well then they clearly, they know where we went.
So they're probably going to be waiting for us at this secret door that is now not so secret.
Like right there. They know. They know where we came from. It would, I think it would be much sneakier to... Go up on top?
Up top. Let's try it. All right. Let's see if we can figure this out. So we're going back to...
From where we were, do we think that that underground room was directly below roughly where the casino was?
From as well as some of you knew the city, you were able to find that area
and kind of listen for the sound and the hollowness of that wall because it was where you assumed the casino was.
So you do think it is directly beneath it. Okay. Also as a heads up, because we did level up to six between,
and this is open beta and we're trying things out. You know, you guys, technically you wouldn't level up in the middle of action in the middle of the story,
but fuck it, we're all level six now and you know, whatever your load out is is fine. So, 'cause we're playing loosey goosey
and having fun with it. But all right. Heal to burn a stress.
Have to clear my stress. But that's a whole nother thing. Okay, Oppy, lead us back to the casino and charm your way into finding the door.
All right. (laughter) Let's go. I got this. Got your magics?
Huh? You got your magics? I got my magics. Courage? Yeah. (indistinct) plan. I'm very excited.
Can we navigate our way through the sewer back to the entrance that we used to come down. Yeah, you guys had kind of reached
that entrance when you realized that your friends didn't follow suit. So you all climb up out of the sewer and back onto the nighttime glowing red streak of Lolvale.
As we come back to the subterranean basement of the casino, Bunnie, Sweetpea,
the two of you are now tied to adjacent chairs, unable to move your hands or legs.
Looking up in the dark, shadowed interior of this basement space. There, the horrible kind of briny breath
of Mortimer Kroatona finds its way warmly across your faces
as he skulks low and nearby squatting his massive toad form. (growls)
"Hi." Ooh. (chuckles)
(laughs) Immediately ignores you.
"So, who sent ya?" What? "Who sent you to come and try and kill us?"
Oh no, no, no. Nobody. "Nobody?" We didn't do that.
"Why'd you come here? You don't just stumble through the sewers and bust open a wall
and attack me and my family for no reason. Why?"
Ooh. We were, well here's the thing.
We were walking through the sewer and then we saw this door, right?
And we were like, "Oh, that seems really interesting. We should check it out." And then we went in to it and that's where you were.
And then you attacked us and we just didn't even know what was happening. And that's why we tried to run away.
Go ahead and make a presence roll for me with disadvantage. To try and lie to him.
When you're full of bullshit? (chuckles)
With disadvantage? Yes. 'Cause he's already been lied to a few times. How do I, wait, I forget. I already forget how to do a disadvantage.
Minus a d6? Correct. So you roll the two. Roll your Hope and Fear die, add it together, minus a d6.
Roll high and roll low. The correct choice. Oh. Oh.
Okay. 12, 13, 10.
With Hope. With Hope. So you get a Hope.
Ridiculous. There's a pause as the smile curls across your fungal lips?
I say with a question mark. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I got lips. Yeah, you do. I got cutie little thin lips.
Yeah. And he just kinda glares at you, inspecting your form.
His large hand without even staring away, reaches over and palms Bunnie's head. Ooh.
And just gently begins to squeeze. Oh. Hey mister,
You know, we was just really curious. You know,
we just really wanna know more about this Seep business.
Just as you know, good Samaritans doing a good Samaritan thing. "Good Samaritans.
That's what you are, just wandering in and stabbing and lighting us on fire to be good Samaritans."
Well, no, you know, I just, I do really feel like, you know, that was self-defense. You know, you gotta,
you are a big strong mister. I'm sure you know things. "I was minding my business!"
Yeah, we were too. Taking a nice casual stroll in the sewers. Yeah.
We didn't even mean to find you. "Cut the bullshit.
And let's be a little honest here." Sure. Why did you come here?
Can I ask a question, DM? Yeah. How many people are in this room? Ah, so now you kinda take in the space beyond him.
You can see his sister Gemma is about 10 feet behind him. And at a quick glance in the low,
kind of like firelit chamber where you can see three other people, but your view is also only of this longer mid room.
There are openings to each side. The left goes into the main chamber with his big seat where you fought a lot of the battle before,
and the right leads into a small room with the stairs that lead up into what you assume is the casino above. Okay.
Mortimer plus three people. And his sister. And Gemma.
Where is my amulet? Look, I, I really don't,
I really don't know what you're talking about with that part of it, but, okay. So, I was joking earlier.
We were looking for you. Oh, see, now we're getting somewhere.
Now, and he kinda like scoots real close to you. Still holding, still palming Bunnie's head
and like his hand is large enough, like the fingers wrap around it and touch the back, like curling past other side of his palm.
She has a show later on tonight so maybe just try not to mess up her hair too much. It's true, curtain call's in like an hour.
Answer the question. Yes, so we were looking for you because of this seep stuff.
What, what the fuck is seep? Seep is, I'm not exactly sure, It's like oozy and, and, and maybe like black,
and sometimes it's kind of gooey. You know, you know, it's the,
that stuff at the bottom of the canyon that's making things all weird. It kind of releases the grip on you for a second.
Oh. (chuckles)
Ah, okay, I think I know what you're talking about, yeah. Yeah, you know, we're just doing our due diligence.
You know, you weren't supposed to kind of get caught in the crossfires here. We were just trying to figure out some stuffs about the seeps
Crossfire. ♪ You got caught up in the ♪ So you're looking for this, this seep,
whatever's in the, the Down Ravine Mines, okay, okay.
Well, I'll tell you what, since you're both, this is your last night here on the world,
why don't we, why don't we trade? Why don't we have a little conversation here, how about that? All right I like trades.
All right, you give me a little bit of information, then I'll tell you what you're looking for. Okay. And then I'm gonna ask you another question.
So it's kind of like truth or dare? Sure, we'll call it that. Truth and die.
(laughing) It's so high stakes, I love it. I, I just don't know if I'm gonna be very good at this,
'cause I don't really know what we're doing other than there's like seep.
Wait, you've never played truth or die? Ooh.
(laughing) Where's my amulet?
Yeah, that question, right, I don't know. Next. (giggles) That's, it's true.
Your friend ran in, took it, and disappeared! Where is he?
Where can I find him? Well, we dunno 'cause we're here. This feels like a very self-explanatory situation.
How are we supposed to know? I don't have, you know, GPS or something
connected to wherever your, your necklace is. All right, so you got nothing to offer me.
That means you have no use to me. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. We, look, she's, she's really sexy. (chuckles)
It's true. I like how you guys have decided to be tied by your wrists in the front and you're tied by the wrist in the back.
(laughing) I'm a little less risky so it makes it, I was just, you know.
Can I, DM? Yeah? This whole time be kind of
trying to pull my arms out of their bindings,
and can I utilize Shibari Expert to help with that? Yes, you may. Okay.
All right, so you can make either, nah, this would be an Agility. So go ahead and make an Agility roll for me if you could.
But you can add, if you wanna spend a Hope, you can add your Shibari Expert experience to that.
I will. All righty. Hang on, let me spend a Hope.
Mark it off right there. Yep. Oh, wait, hang on, I gotta do it, wait, do we? Needs to be a special card.
I got so much Hope to spend. Oh no. Wait. Can I spend a Hope to help her?
You are adjacent to her. Uh-huh, and I'm a sneaky little mushroom.
You are indeed a sneaky little mushroom, yeah. And me and Oppy oftentimes tried to get out of punishment from our elders,
so I was good at causing distractions. So are you gonna distract?
I'm helping her by distracting him. Okay, yeah, I'll allow that, so go ahead and spend a Hope. Nature is thicker than blood.
Water is thicker than blood, thank you very much. And that's for when me and Oppy are doing things together.
Yeah, go ahead and spend the Hope and then you can add a D6 to this. I can add a D6, that's good.
Ooh! (laughing) I'm so excited. Okay, 12, 14, 16, 22, 30 with Fear.
30 with Fear. Yes. I love that you have these now, it's so cool.
Elise built me these in a day. Ah, it's so cool. Shout out to you, Elise.
So, as you are, explain how you're distracting him, if you don't mind.
So now that you asked us a question, do we get to ask you a question? Because I have so many.
Like, you know, your game upstairs, the one where you roll the dice with this, this,
is there any way- We don't get to trade questions until you answer mine. Oh, that makes sense, okay.
'Cause I have so, okay, yeah, you go first. (growls) Can I just kill them?
As this is happening, you (imitates ropes swooshing) pull your wrists out
and manage to slightly loosen around your ankles. So you're still holding it, but you are free of your bindings.
Great, I'm still pretending like I'm bound though. Okay, looks back. (growls) I'm sorry.
Your little monkey friend. Yes? Where's he staying, where's he sleeping? I don't know.
If you don't gimme an answer, I have nothing to give you and I'll just kill you right now. Well look, you know, mister, We were supposed to be at the curtain call
at the Lily Locket Lounge in an hour. So if you let us go, you know, he was probably gonna help us in the show.
He was at least gonna watch, but I was gonna offer him to see if he like wanted to like play the tambourine or something.
Okay, so you have him at Lily Locket now. Good to know, all right. That's enough for me.
Your question, about this seep business, sure, why not? Uh, well, see, me and my sisters,
we were approached by this weird, eccentric wealthy baron out of Champion's Crown.
This fella wanted to help us for a trade. He offered to help us
expand our mining influence in the town if we helped him deliver a weird stonelike package
to the Emerald Sky. Oh! Now, we asked him why he wouldn't do it himself,
but he said he wasn't welcome in such natural spaces, kind of creepy, kind of, I don't give a shit, to be honest.
He wasn't welcome in what kind of spaces? Natural spaces. Ooh. Isn't every space a natural space? I don't fully- I don't fuckin' care.
All right, all right, keep talking. No, I wasn't interested in this whole business until you showed me that, that necklace,
the one that your friend took. There was something enticing about it and I, I,
I really he wanted it, it was a beautiful gemstone. He said he'd give it to me as part of the deal and he did.
So we came to an agreement, so long as he showed us how he'd help our operations, that we'd go ahead and see that this thing
was delivered into the Emerald Sky for whatever purpose he had for it. It was destroying the entire ecosystem.
I don't care. (laughing) But, he showed us this strange little black purple gem,
kind of a rough cut thing. And he said, be patient. About a week later, the entirety of the Gulch Bottom Mine
been shut down entirely. The most powerful and largest competitor
of the red crystal mining here in this city, outta business. And it's been boomin' ever since,
so he was good on his word so we had to be good on ours.
We found a schmuck who didn't have anything to lose. Dyson, made him go off and do this for us
and it seems he told on us, so we'll make sure he's taken care of too. But, I think that answers your question.
I have one last question. Sure. What are your last words? Wait, why though? And you see him as he's like reaching back
for this nasty gnarled looking, jagged mace. And you see Gemma in the back is like. (cackles)
And all the people starting to come inward and more folks are starting to appear- I wanna cast Dark Cloud.
Okay. So you go ahead and cast Dark Cloud, do you have to roll for spell cast? I have to roll a spell cast.
All right, go for it. Just ink fart. That's my instinct roll, I'm pretty sure
Can you add an experience to it? Wait, do I Instinct or Finesse?
Foundation, spell cast, Finesse. It's whatever your spell casting is, yeah, Finesse. Go ahead and make a Finesse roll for me. Okay, so that's these.
Do you wanna add anything to it or? Yeah, I'm gonna, can I add Hope to it? No, I can't do that, spend a Hope to an experience.
Right. That's it though. This is not, this wouldn't count as sneaky. This is a spell casting ability, so no.
Okay, so this is just bleak look. This one and this one. And then I go like this.
Okay. Oh no, that face. It does not succeed.
You don't know. Is that with Hope or Fear? It's with Fear and it doesn't succeed.
I had to roll 15 and I rolled a 13. Okay. So at this moment you begin to try and move your fingers,
they're still bound in the chair and it's tough. And the spell begins to curl around your hands,
you could feel the energy going, but you're unable to completely coalesce it. And as your body moves, as he was staring
kind of over to the side, grabbing the mace, he sees you wiggling and the magic began to apparate, the black cloud begin to like pft in the space.
Oh no you don't. Wham! And he hits you across the head with the mace. Immediately blood spatters across the stone next to it.
You take... No! That is cruel as fuck. He doesn't give a shit.
That's gonna be 16 points of physical damage. (gasping) Oh no, I can't even.
Okay, I take some major damage there. So he's like. (imitates mace thudding)
See now I get to have fun. And he's gonna lift up the mace again. I'm gonna like, after he hits,
I'm just gonna be like, oh, that's my cue, and release myself of the binds. Okay and then can I take the rope
and like wrap it around, like whip it around his hand,
since I am technically also a whip expert, to try and disarm him? You wanna try and disarm the weapon?
Yeah. Sure. All right, so go ahead and, for that, go ahead and roll a Finesse roll for me. Yeah, I'm good at that.
Can I, well that's I guess a damage dice thing.
Okay. Okay, 9, 12, 14, 15, 17, with Hope.
17 with Hope. Yeah, that'll succeed. So you get a Hope from that and you wrap the whip around his hands
as he pulls him upward and gets kind of caught backwards. He tries to tear free and as you withdraw the whip,
you pull the mace out of his hands and it (imitates mace thudding) hits the ground and scrapes to the floor next to you.
(growling) It's kinky. Whip my fan attack.
Okay, go for it. Okay. Okay. Okay.
(gasps) That's a crit. That's a crit. Okay. Wait, what happens?
Do I, I do max damage? What happens? I know, it's been a minute. So you do max damage
and then roll your damage dice on top of it. So that's a three D8 with my proficiency, so that's 24,
plus a roll of another three D8. (gasps) Wow. Wow.
I believe that's correct. Okay, ook, wait, I wasn't prepared.
Shit, shit, here we go, I'm good. Okay, so wait, 24 plus, that's 28, 32, 39 points of damage.
39 points of damage, that's well over severe. So he takes three hit points marked.
(grunts) As you like pull the mace from his hands, turn around and then whip him, where are you striking him with the whip?
Well that was with, I did a whip to disarm and then I hit with my fan. Oh, with the fans, okay, right. So it carves across the side of his head
and he like falls to his knees that kind of snap as he kind of puts his whole weight on them at the wrong direction.
He (groans) yells out. Hitting the ground, he looks back at you, you can see one of his eyes is completely cut through
and there's just like a blood streaking down his face. This massive ribbit mouth is open. (growls) Kill them!
Uh. (laughing) And she's still bound. Can can I shadow bind him, now that he's on his knees?
Sure. And he won't be able to stand up, right? He won't be able to move. Okay. Yeah.
Yeah, can I try it? Yeah, go ahead and roll. Make a spell cast roll.
And is anything else in close range, very close range? In very close range to you or him?
Of me? Of you, no, it's just him. Oh. Yay.
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, with Hope. That succeeds. So you take a Hope.
He falls onto the ground after being smashed in the face by Bunnie's fans as he's yelling at her and shouts "Kill them"
you still manage to now bring your hand to the side a little bit and finish the incantation. The shadow that fills most of this chamber,
the shadow that he's casting on the wall, suddenly spreads out and digs into the rock, like a tree taking root in a matter of seconds.
And he's like, (groans), "Not again!" And he's just kind of clutching his eyes shut right now.
He said, "Not again." No, it's so annoying, I kept doing that to him earlier. (laughing) Oh, that's right, you did. Gemma in the back is like, "Huh, Mortimer?"
Can I pick and pull and try to undo my binds? Yes you can. Okay. So go ahead and roll an Agility or Finesse, your choice.
With advantage. Yes. 'Cause of you're pick and pull.
Okay, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, with Fear.
With Fear, okay, so that does indeed succeed. You managed to rip out of your bindings and both of you are now unbound from the chair.
However, it's now my go. So I'm gonna go ahead
and spend two of these action tokens to get a Fear and then Mortimer angrily in this space,
'cause he's a big guy and he's still close to both of you, is gonna go ahead and the mace is gone, but he still has his cane sorta at his side,
he's gonna reach out and grab it and pull the head of the cane off almost like a like a katana,
you know, samurai slash out, does an arc out towards you since you're the one who gashed him last time.
That's gonna be, 14 to hit? Yeah, that hits. That hits you, okay.
So with that, this cane hit is a beefy one. He's very pissed.
That's gonna be 17 points of physical damage. Oh, ew. Okay.
Oh, actually I'm gonna be using a Fear off that one to do Watch Him Fall as part of that, so it's actually against everyone within very close range,
means he hits you both for that. Aw. Yeah. 17? 14 hits you.
No, yeah. Yeah, yes. So 17 points of physical damage to both of you. I will, wait, 17 minus eight drops it down to nine.
My major threshold is nine. So that would still be a major. It would still be major It has to be below.
That's annoying. I have to use like all my armor to drop it down to minor. Oh, at least you have armor to use, oh.
Okay, I'm gonna use a lot of armor to drop it from 17 down. Go for it, that's what it's there for. Do it. Yeah, I'll use three as well to drop it down to a minor.
Okay. A miner or a minor? A minor. Not a miner then.
I'm using a minor. Okay. (laughing)
So that was his activation there. And then in the back, I'm gonna have,
no, he's kind of in the space there, he can't move and he's holding up the area to get to you guys. So the rest of the crew can't get to you right now
'cause he's kind of filling the area where you're held. But in the back, his sister was gonna go ahead
and fire with her scepter. So I'm gonna activate her, she's gonna go ahead and roll and attack you.
That's gonna be a 12. It hits. That hits? Okay, you take...
That's not a great roll. Nine points of magic damage. Nine points.
Sorry, I meant to say this at the previous one. I want to do Never Upstaged.
Can I do that with this previous damage, since this is all one attack round? Sure, yeah. Okay.
I will drop it down to one more hit point,
spending an armor. Never Upstaged, when you attack... Sorry, when you mark one or more hit points from an attack,
you may mark a stress, which I will do. Mm-hm. To place a number of tokens on this card
equal to the number of hit points you marked. On your next attack, you may increase your proficiency by plus one for each token on this card,
then clear all tokens. So could I give two tokens from that? Correct. Okay.
Great, I will do that and prep that for later. All right, and now you get struck with the scepter
for nine points of magic damage from Gemma, his sister in the back. Yes, sorry, I counted that. You did? Great. Yes, yeah yeah yeah.
All right, that finishes my go. The two of you are still in the midst of this fray. Now he's locked to the ground and he's blocking the walkway
to where you guys are, and you can see the rest of his thugs are starting to rush up to try and get to you.
What are you doing? Do you want to get the fuck out of Dodge? Yeah, we should run away. Okay, here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to grab Sweetpea and pull her in and be like,
why are you hurting us? And I'm going to try and do Recant on Mortimer.
So he has to roll a reaction roll of 15. Okay.
And I spend a hope to do that. That's a four. That's a failure. So he forgets the last minute of our conversation.
(cackles) Okay, okay. That's awesome! That's very cool.
That's cool. Dang! I'm going to be like, what? Don't hurt us! That's so mean! We were never here!
Bamf, and teleport us out. Okay, okay. Do you have to roll anything for Recant? It just happens?
He rolls the reaction roll. Oh, right, that's it. Yeah, okay. That's so mean! That's awesome. That's so mean! So he's on the ground. He goes (grunts), covers one eye,
and is like, "What were we... What the fuck? Who are you?"
And right as he's looking back, the thugs start to rush in, their weapons out, and you see Gemma being like, "You okay? You okay, brother?"
Go ahead and roll to see if you can teleport. Do you roll, or do you just do it? I do have to roll. Oh god! I do have to roll, oh no!
I can't help. This is it. This is it! You can try and help, if you can think of a way to help. You a spellcaster? I'm a spellcaster.
Do you have any hope to spend? I have so much hope to spend. This is what it's there for. I want to help her with a hope.
How do you help her? Because I'm going to use my Copycat skill, and I'm going to also just follow her lead and be like, why?
We are just sweet. I'm just a sweet little mushroom.
I'm just a sweet little mushroom! I don't know if you can apply the Copycat skill. Shit. But if you're just spending
a hope to help, she just gets the d6. Then I'm just going to spend a hope to help. Yeah.
You can say you use your Copycat for it, but usually your experiences help rolls you make. Oh, well then shit. If you're helping somebody,
you spend a hope to help them with a d6. I'm just narratively asking, how do you help out with that?
It's all good. I help her. Once again, still learning this system. I help her. ♪ I help her ♪
Bunnie can kind of feel Sweetpea's magical essence and it helps enhance--
Yeah, I'm going to help using my shadowy abilities, and so it'll bamf us shadowy as we teleporties.
There we go, so you call the shadows in closer. Yeah, enhance! Yeah. The magical energy that you're used to calling from the shadows helps to aid this moment.
Okay, okay. That was so many shakes to get a roll. Yeah, that was a wild roll, but it does succeed.
I got a 12 and a one, but that is 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 plus three,
which brings it to 20. 20! That is a success. And I needed to roll a 16. That is a success. So thank god for that.
Is it with-- With a hope! With a hope. With a hope, so you get a hope, all righty. So as you both clasp each other, whining towards Mortimer,
as he just adjusts to the weirdness around him, reaches over and grabs for the mace that scrapes
on the stone, the rest of the thugs rushing in. You both vanish from this space. Where are you teleporting?
Yeah, I realized too, it has modifiers depending on how well I know the place. Mm-hm. Which is not too well.
Can we teleport to outside of the grate? How far can you teleport? I feel like that's where we would go, right? Right? Or maybe even...
I know, but we would-- Appear. Up to the casino? If your first thought is outside of the grate, then that's where--
I think it would be-- It's the beta! The timing of all this, we would still be in the sewer. Not outside the grate, but I want to be,
that tunnel entrance that we came in on the cliff face, where we even entered. Oh, the very beginning.
Yes, before we went underground. Okay. We'll go there, I guess. Great, okay, so both of you appear now--
Yeah, it doesn't have a limit. --out in the night air, just within visual shot of Lullvale,
past the rope bridge that goes across the open ravine, leading you to the exterior.
You now have a beautiful view of the city. All the way outside of Lullvale. I didn't want to be out, because we went down
into the sewers, we went through the sewers, and then there was the grate. Right. So I wanted to go to that entrance,
which I don't think was that far outside. I thought you meant, that's why I said, at the beginning of last adventure. I thought you meant outside the city. No, no, no. Entrance to the sewer.
Entrance to the sewer, okay. You reloaded too far! Shit! Later save. Yeah, later save!
Exactly. Scum save, scum save. So standing here in the middle of the alley side street
of Lullvale, you can hear the familiar sound of nearby music and laughter as people are going about their business, and you both apparate.
Still holding her. That went so well. I feel like we did so good.
The sewer lid pushes aside, right as Xarlow's the first figure to step up.
Look at that. Oh, the fucking lot of you! They're here, they're right in front of me! They found us already! Ready for an attack!
No, shh! No! How did you...
We were just looking behind, and you weren't there, and then you just-- Bunnie was miraculous, and she got out of her ropes,
and she teleported us. What ropes? Did you fly ahead of us, or-- We were tied up.
We were tied up. It was very dramatic and kind of romantic, in a romance novel kind of way.
Bunnie was moaning a lot. Whoa! Cool!
And Mortimer was really angry. Oh. He's real mad you took his necklace.
Ooh, yeah. So how did you get out of there, then? And is he coming to kill me?
Yes, but he might forget where we were, because everything that you said, he's going to forget.
Above table, do you think you wiped out the mention of the show? Was that a minute before that?
I feel like-- Go ahead and roll a d20 for me. I'll say on a six plus, yes. Right on the cusp. On a six plus, yes it wiped?
It wiped the memory, because it was right-- That combat was super quick. That was super cocked. That landed on...
12! Okay, all right. So yeah, you just managed to wipe out the last smidge of memory as you mentioned
that bit of information. Yes! We did find out some good information, though,
about who wanted to have all this seep business, and spread it all over the world.
That's great. Let's walk and talk. Let's walk and talk. We'll walk and talk. This is a perfect moment to walk and not go to the casino. Do we need to get out of town,
so that I can live, you know? No, I'm sure it's fine. What? How would you even-- But it's a crime family,
so there's many of them. It's totally fine. Oh, right. I told them-- Ooh, wait a minute!
Let me see. Danger lurks everywhere. Plus we have a show to get to, right? Yeah. This is a big opportunity for me, I can't miss it.
Maybe get rid of the necklace. Oh my gosh, wait, no! I'm going to switch this out. Can't do that, lass.
I'm going to switch this out. Yeah, and I'm going to...
Well, when we get to... I can make it to where they won't find us. (indistinct).
If we just, you know, tuck away for a few minutes. Look, we got the informations.
What do you mean? I just need a few minutes to focus! It takes a lot of focus.
Should we do that now? Sure. I don't argue with mushrooms, in general. Okay, well, let's get a couple blocks away.
Just say yes. Just say yes. Try and do a left and a right and a left to just get some distance. Sure. Yeah! Okay.
You step into a particularly pungent alleyway that comes to an end with a few piles of garbage
and what looks to be somebody who either passed out, or hasn't woken up in a few days. But you're pretty sure you feel under the radar,
and have some time to prep what you're prepping. Okay, everybody gather around me in a circle.
Are you touchable to me? Okay, now everybody, lick my head.
What? Lick the top of my head. Lick the top of your head? Lick the top of my head. It's how I cast my spells. Just lick the top--
I'm just going to shoot my tongue out. Just keep your tongue on there, and as your tongue--
We have to hold our tongue-- Yeah, you have to touch. All right. So we have to circle around you? That's what I said. Circle really close.
Like a flagpole. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just do it! We have to keep our tongues on your head? Keep your tongues on-- (mumbling)
This is going to be clipped out so quick. Get your fucking tongue on her head!
Once everybody's licking my head-- Yeah! (laughing) They're slowly, from their tongue down their body,
everybody's going to start transforming, and they're going to look not like themselves.
What do we look like? What do we look like? Is there a certain type of people
that is in Lullvale the most? Oh, you know what we're going to look like? We're going to look like a bunch of sexy ladies
that work at-- The Lily Locket Lounge? Yeah. All righty. This'll be even better
for when you back me up at the show. Whoa! We're all sexy as fuck.
All righty. This is wild, you guys. Five sexy ladies licking a mushroom. That's what we are.
Because it's fun, let's go around the table. Oppy, what does your sexy form look like? Oh wow.
So, still blue. Mm-hm. The color of my skin tone didn't change,
but just the biggest titties you ever did see. Yes!
And just perfect little hourglass shape, and--
You stand up and show it. Yeah, I'm like, my body! Feel yourself, yeah.
No. What is happening? A leather bustier. Yes!
Long, dark hair. Still blue skin, yellow eyes.
Gorgeous! So beautiful. So hot. And little bloomers. Great.
The little ruffly ones? Oh my god, so cute! The little ruffly ones. Hell yeah. Yes! And then thigh high boots. Yes! All right. Xarlo?
Oh, I thought I was waiting for Travis. It's me, isn't it? No, I'm holding him last. You're saving the best for last? Yeah. Right. I also get to be a sexy lady, though.
I know. I'll get to you. Okay. I'm a broad-shouldered dame. I'm in a zip-up-- Inspiration gets you.
--skintight, black,
pleather, full body outfit, I have black hair that's pulled up tight--
Oh, yes! --into a ponytail that's-- Nice! --spreading over the top, with very dark goth makeup. Yo!
Wow. The Matrix. Perfect. All right, Xarlo? Oh yeah, I'm ready.
I'm still a simia, but I'm a tall, lanky, I look more like a tamarin now, and they have a big boof of orange fur,
and I have a matching fur coat with feathers poking out on all sides. Beautiful. And there's very little under the coat.
Wonderful. Sweetpea? Oh! I also elongate, and my skin turns pink, and I turn into a fairy.
I sprout wings, and I've got long, beautiful, hot pink hair,
and my whole outfit is gemstones and dangly, shaky bits.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Awesome. Also, Dante. I honestly just have to be-- Shell bikini, shell bikini, shell bikini.
I have to be classical, so I'm going for whatever the turtle version--
Hot turtle? Thank you so much. You just made me completely lose my run.
I'm so sorry! The turtle version of Dolly Parton in Best Little Whorehouse in Texas. Great! Yes!
Big blonde hair, just doing the whole thing. Oh my god. I love it. Holy shit. And then a peach negligee that just sort of sits where it's supposed to,
and then nice mid-calf boots. Nice. And some gloves. Mid-calf.
Oh, mid-calf. Mid-calf. There's a guy standing on the side of the road. I like turtles.
And Bunnie. Oh honey, I know. You know, so...
How long does this last? An hour. But I can do it again, and just keep it going. No, this is great.
You know, it'll probably time out perfectly, so we have this transformation moment that's going to blow the crowd's mind.
So with that in mind, I kind of want to have a little black flapper bob, very Catherine Zeta-Jones-esque.
Yeah. Nice. And her fans turn into the big feathered showgirl fans.
Yes! And then yeah, she's going to be wearing a slinky,
going with the flapper vibe, a little fringe tiny micro dress.
She's wearing a Bob Mackie. She's having her Mackie moment. Amazing.
What the fuck is a Bob Mackie? It's-- Fashion. People will know. Fashion.
We'll do black, glittery-- It's fashion, darling. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I have an addendum. My new necklace looks amazing with my tits.
Stuck in. Great. Should my tongue still be numb, by the way? Yeah. This is normal, okay.
It goes away after-- I don't know how I'm supposed to walk in these! It looks so good, Oppy. I don't even know how my feet are fitting in these!
Oh my god, they're just... (laughing) You're holding onto the outside of them.
To a stiletto. Walking on the shoes. Yeah.
Oh my god! All right, we're good girls. I need fan art of this immediately.
Freshly transformed and confident that you're likely not to be followed by any surface... At least not by the family, for particular reasons.
You begin to walk through the night air, heading back towards the Lily Locket Lounge, where in due time, within the next hour,
your time onstage will transpire. As you step into the-- Why is everyone looking at us and whistling?
Because we're so hot! Oh. Doesn't it feel nice? Every time I walk, I'm going to shift so my beads go... (rattling) Yeah, it does feel nice.
Stepping within the interior of the Lily Locket Lounge,
the atmosphere has become vibrant. People are swarmed in to pass their tickets over
and be brought into the main chamber. You can see this is an evening performance that many, many denizens of the town are excited to arrive at.
As you step within, you can see there are the various ushers and employees,
and some of the dancers who aren't performing tonight helping bring people to their seats and take tickets,
and you can see the matron looking a bit nervously, asking around.
Since you're not being recognized at first, there's a little bit of a hubbub and a worry of where the full lineup is.
Oh wait, what was the name of the doorman again? What was his name? Shit, I don't remember.
It's been a minute. Hang on. Find the notes here.
I didn't write it down. Dyson Brouche? Shit. Shit. I have Dylan.
Whatever, I go up to-- Give him a nickname. Ogden Brums. Yeah, sure, that's him. I go up to Ogden.
That's the assistant to the matron. But you do see him present. Yes, yeah yeah yeah. He's the orc man. Psst! Ogden!
It's me, it's Bunnie. I know, right?
"We found her." The matron turns. "Oh my goodness, look at you." Thank you.
I have this one over here, this is Sweetpea, to thank. It's part of the act.
It's going to blow their minds, because there's going to be a transformation moment in the middle. It's going to be incredible.
It's going to be like a quick change, but better. "I'm excited to see it.
I didn't know you were going about, wandering abroad to collect an entire new troupe of performing girls.
This is exquisite. I don't know if we have time to sign them all up
on the registry of our performers, but based on what we see tonight, perhaps there is room here on the docket, so."
Yeah, they're just going to jump onstage. They know exactly what to do. We've been rehearsing.
It's going to be fantastic. "I wasn't expecting an ensemble piece. Lafauna might be a little frustrated,
as her backup dancers are part of her ensemble as well, an ensemble into an ensemble. I'll talk to her and make sure
that everything goes smoothly." Well, you know.
People are going to innovate. Times are going to change. She's going to have to keep up, you know? "Well, the green room should be cleared.
You can take your time to prepare. We have only..." She pulls out a little pocket watch. "Only about 40-ish minutes until the performance begins.
A little over that time before your troupe is to get onstage, so take the time to rest and be ready when you are.
Oh, yes! Zamora, it's been a while." She wanders off to go say hi to some other people,
and begin doing the social butterfly thing before the performance.
Do I need to point out that when you make your miraculous transformation, which I'm sure is going to be extraordinary--
Yeah! --the rest of us are also going to make an extraordinary transformation that will be a little less enticing?
Does it have to work that way? Oh, I mean, I can up it, I can re-up it
when we go to the dressing room. And just Bunnie? And just make it... Transference? Yeah, you can drop it if you want, I think.
(laughing) Just make some promises. You can end that effect when you want. Yeah, I can end it on just you if I want.
No, you know, I think this is great, because here's my inspirations. I'm thinking that we do kind of like a little dance routine
about our experience together, so when we transform it's us
as an adventuring troop. I think this is good because I think it's going to be...
I'm all about... I need to be on stage for the performance? I mean, we are supposed to be doing something
other than performing while we're here. This is fucking wild, we were just running from fucking gangsters.
Yeah. And we're here as detectives more or less. Yeah. The only thing is, Bunnie,
if we all transform back into ourselves, then they're going to know it's us again.
Yeah, you have a point. Do you think there's any of that frog family here? But wait, you can cast it again?
Yeah. Okay, so part of the show, one of the dance moves is we got to lick your head.
Yeah, and then I just re-up it. We all just transform into something else. I just need a few minutes of silence to focus.
So just shut up in the middle of the act. The lights go down. Just give me a minute.
Just a couple minutes of quiet and contemplation. Just a few minutes of just licking my head.
(laughing) I will say though, unless we feel,
by the way, can we say as we walked and talked, Sweetpea and I filled everybody in on the information that we got?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay, good stuff you got. Unless we feel like we need more information,
then maybe my performance could be a good distraction.
We could also get the fuck out of Dodge as soon as the show is over. It's true, we should go down to the mines, right?
Do we need to? Should we splitsies? I think we have to try to finish what we started.
This is good for a break.
That's what he said, there was a baron from Champion's Cro... From Champion's Crown, you said? Crown.
Before we get to the stage, if you guys want to, you can take a short rest to... That wouldn't actually be... Little bit of down time.
As you have a little bit of time. Bottle service at the same time. Ooh, that sounds great. Oh yeah, bottle service, definitely for the lead performance of the night,
that can be arranged here at the Lily Locket, yeah. And then maybe we can mingle. "Choose two options below."
So you could rearrange your load out. You can just figure out what's in your vault and what's in your loadout. You have five cards max in your loadout.
And you can choose two of the options in them, there's tend to wounds, clear your stress, repair armor
or you can gain two hope by preparing. Oh man, okay, okay, okay.
All right, I'm going to tend to my wounds. I'm going to definitely tend to my wounds. All right, that's a d4 to heal.
Get to do how many of each of these? Two of them. Two, okay. And you can tend to somebody else's wounds too. If you don't need it,
want to help somebody who's particularly hurt. Can you do one twice? That's an odd question.
You may repeat the same action twice if you like, yeah. Oh, excellent. Is anybody really fucking hurt? I'm really fucking hurt.
Are you going to heal us before I heal myself? Because I suck at it. Right, let me... I'm pretty hurt.
Well, I'll only have two options, one actually. Can I use your pencil? Uh-huh.
Okay, well then I... Can you heal us before the short rest? I can heal you. Oh, well...
If you need it then I'm happy to. I'm one, two, three, four, five hit points in. Come here, darling, come here.
And I zhuzh the side of your frill, right? And I think it just works.
It does once per long rest, so this is mine for the day here I'm doing it. Use an action and touch a creature
to clear two hit points or two stress. We'll clear the hit points because you're hurt. Thank you. That's two. Thank you. Then do for you, for you.
Okay, then I'll still use mine and take another one off. So that's done for me. Okay.
And I'll...
When you tend to wounds, you roll a d4, it's 1d4? 1d4, yeah. All right, all right. And the only way to clear stress is through short rests
or can you clear stress by spending a hope and clearing a stress? No. There's no other way. You clear stress by either this downtime action
during a rest, or if you roll a critical on any sort of action roll,
you gain a hope and clear a stress. And certain abilities or spells in the game
and some domain cards can also help you clear stress like the heal spell that Xarlo just used.
You also have a stamina potion if any of you have a stamina potion in your inventory. A stamina potion can help you heal 1d4 stress as well.
Oh cool. Okay. For myself, my short rest stuff from both tending to wounds and repairing armor,
which I'm doing through my illusory fur coat while we wait.
Oh, and the dogs are there still too. Twix and Twex? Yes, Twix and Twex are on either side of my boobies.
Is that what you called them? (chuckling) I'm repairing my armor. All righty.
Oh yes. So you can clear 1d4 used slots. I cleared a ton of stress.
One, two, three.
And I will use some of my winnings from the casino to get bottle service for the lot of us.
So we are swimming in, what do you think they have here? Oh, anything you can imagine.
I can imagine a lot. Then imagine something, I'll have some fruit and rum drinks, yeah.
Oh yeah. Lots of little paper umbrellas. Oh yeah. A smattering of ones in the drinks and on the side in case you want to pick and choose.
As well as some curly straws as part of it. I want more drinks than I can drink and I can drink a lot.
They bring you three trays that have the ice buckets in them for additional pre-mix that you can go ahead and pour into your cup.
It's designed to probably wreck customers and often aren't sent to the green room before performances.
But you were very intent. There's a bit of liquid courage for you for the night.
As time passes on, you all take this rest until eventually the din of the audience falls to a hush
and one of the other dancers comes by and goes, it's starting, get yourself ready. Oh, should I re-up our disguise?
Eden's up first, it's Eden then you, and then it's Mafauna. Got it.
How long is Eden's act? I'm going to say normally five minutes.
Okay, do you all stay in or do you watch? What? Look, we do need to find out some stuff about this wealthy barons.
So maybe I can just take Sweetpea and Kexon
as my backup dancers and then the rest of you can do crowd works.
That's great. I think it's a brilliant idea. I do too. It doesn't have to be you, Kexon.
It's really anyone who's feeling inspired. I think it has to be Kexon, really. Look how beautiful.
Does anybody have a really good presence? I do. You do. I would be happy to be a backup dancer if necessary.
Although presence might be good for talking to people too. That's probably the most important. Yes, I'm at your disposal as always.
Right before we go on, while Eden's doing her number, everybody's got to lick me.
(laughing) You did this intentionally, don't think I don't know that.
It's the most you bullshit I can imagine. So all of you quietly gather around Sweetpea.
A bunch of beautiful women. A few moments of silence. Leaning over another beautiful woman. All extend your tongues against the cap of the mushroom.
Yeah, my disguised form also has a big hat on,
so they can just lick my hat. Yeah, a few moments can do it, the door comes open.
All right, you're on deck. Shh. I need silence. (laughing)
I'll mark a stress. So you mark a stress and all of you reclaim your performance forms
for those who need it, unless others are planning to take a different form. Everybody happy with the way they look?
I'm going to keep the same form. I'm very happy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is grand. All righty.
I've never looked so good. So who's the performance troop? I'm going to help. I am good on silks.
Oh. Oh. Bunnie, we have Sweetpea, who else? Okay, well I'll take Xarlo. Xarlo, okay.
He's athletic. Do you want me working the crowd or do you want me on stage?
(laughing) Well, if it's going that direction. Well, I feel like you're, oh.
No, go ahead. I was going to say, why don't you back me up 'cause two backup dancers is weird, three is just enough.
Three makes much more sense, all right. Then I'm ready for it. How did I get here? (laughing)
Well, Travis. Could draw you a map. 11 or 12 years ago. Kexon and Oppy are crowd working.
So we're in the crowd. We're working the crowd. Was supposed to be a boot maker. All right, we'll do a good job.
(laughing) Do you feel like you've got this, we got a big crowd where this wealthy baron is.
I'll find this Baron. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know what to do with my arm, so I'm just settling them on top of my tits.
(laughing) Okay. Is this how you do it? (laughing) I think so.
That looks natural. Yeah, it does. Yeah. Turtle arms, they don't quite lock up. You know what? No.
I will get rid of this. And you describe yourself as very buxom, yes? Very buxom. All right. Very curvy.
So that's why they're up here. Yeah, they're all the way up here for some reason. (laughing)
It's the boostier, it's the Ren Faire shelf. It was the thing, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
All righty. Before we go on,
I will use Telepathy to open a line of mental communication with Kexon
in case shit hits the fan and we need... Spy shit. You got it. All right, so the two of you are mentally bound
and can converse telepathically. Cool. Yes. All right, so while the two of you can exit the chamber
to head into the crowd space, which, I mean the seats are all sold, so you'll be kind of having to nestle in.
And they're not individual seats, they're long benches. They're very nice benches, but people are sitting across them
and there are three main sections of it that kind of spread out into the theater. Is there a bar in the back? There is a bar in the main entryway to the theater,
but nothing in the actual room. Before we leave the dressing room.
I'm going to cast, I'm going to spend a hope to activate a Phantom Retreat. Sure. Just in casies.
In case you got to run, you got it. All right, so you mark the space in the green room.
Little glyph appears on the ground and then fades as it hides itself.
The troop, the four of you head to the backstage wings. There's kind of a centralized wing chamber
on each side of the stage. As you step out, you can already hear the music playing and this grinding sound that's like (whirring).
As you four get to the side, you can see the audience is kind of cheering and clapping,
and Eden, this amazing Katari dancer's latest performance is coming to a close. You see her wearing this beautiful set of leather
and metallic armor on the shoulders. Incredible kind of dark looking makeup and has a metal pair of underwear on
and has a mystical grinder just shooting sparks off the front into the front row of the audience,
just showering everyone in the front with just an arc of glowing metal embers.
Wow! And people are like, "Whoa!" They're catching them in the front row and she's just laughing going, ha! (laughing)
Eden's a great warmup. Amazing. But it's definitely going for being the memorable show of the night.
So it's already starting off strong. Bunnie, what are we doing? She is good.
That bitch! All right.. How do we top that?
All right, so here's what we're going to do. We're going to start off by being sensuals, right? I'm going to use my big feather fans.
We're going to be soft and girly. Do whatever magic stuff you want to umphs the whole thing.
And then I'm going to transform and I'm going to go into my famous whip routine. Okay.
Just go along with it, I trust you. All right. Xarlo just starts stretching and one leg is just up against his face,
standing one-legged. All right. When we come on. You're going to be amazing.
Come and stand behind me, hide behind me and then-- Wait, but they're doing crowd work.
Oh, not you. It's all right, I won't. But you all kind of line up behind me
and then I'll peel off and reveal that you're behind me. Okay. That's how we'll open and then do something cool.
So you're the starter. Yeah. And you'll introduce us to the crowd or reveal us. Right, okay, all right. Left, right then... Yes.
The stage manager who's there off the side, she looks over goes, Bunnie, Bunnie, what's the name of your ensemble?
The Menagerie a Trois. Good name. Goes over to the matron who's off the side waiting,
whispers in matron Boadra's ear and she nods. Ah, good name.
As Eden finishes the performance, the grinder comes to a close, see the magical spinning metal,
kind of rotary tool goes and flips and goes into a side pocket, almost like she's spinning a revolver onto the side.
Gives a wink to the front row and everyone erupts into applause and cheers as she kind of gives a bow and then walks off stage
with a wing to the front. A couple of kind of shadow-dressed stage hands rush out
and kind of pull her supplies and the table that she had off, beginning to set up for the next performance by changing the background
as the curtain comes to a close. Matron Adra steps out. Ah, one final round of applause for Eden
and her robust love of grinding.
For our wondrous next act. We have a long-standing performer
of our esteemed dancing populace.
A majestic traveler who has only just recently returned. Our second returning dancer from abroad.
And at this point you hear (abrupt hissing) and you look off at the side and you can see, the four of you can glance over
and in a big pink robe with a massive fluff boa around the ledges.
Like a full-on Dita Von Teese, long set of robe.
You see this mature, gorgeous fawn
with this short blonde bob, with these ears that kind of curl up high, these horns that kind of curl outward.
And you see her holding half of a cheese sandwich in one hand and is just like, hello, Bunnie.
Oh my goodness, Mafauna. Oh my goodness.
It's an honor to be in your presence. I hope you like what I have planned. I look forward to all of you wowing me and my performers.
Uh-huh. (laughing)
And she walks off stage. As the matron walks back...
She's so fabulous. Places, places.
Okay, so I line up and I bring out my...
Okay, so currently my fans are big fluffy pink fans,
big fluffy pink ostrich feathers. And my Bob Mackey situation is also pink.
And my black hair bob. And then we're going to do, it's going to be a thing. So I open the fans and I hit a pose
and I have them lined up perfectly hidden behind me. And we'll be doing the pose exactly like you?
Uh-huh. Okay. All righty. (giggling) That's you too, like her.
(laughing) Yep. Flare, flare. I was in my mind palace seeing it.
The white lights kick on as the curtain swirls open and the music swells in immediately.
What do you do, Bunnie? So you see, you hear a jazzy horn start to play
and it's like, (imitates horn). (laughing) I do not have jazzy horn on my stream deck
so we're going to use our imagination here. And it's kind of this slow, sultry horn and Bunnie...
Yeah, a little bit of a tin. And then she peeks her face through the feathers
and then as she does a jazz walk forward, you see the other performers as you all,
you kind of got to do left then right, then left then right. And it starts off as this little like sexy fan number,
that's very showgirl, very sultry. Do any of us do have fans too or we're just like?
Jazz hands. You all tell me. (laughing) If I may, after you kick things off,
Xarlo using the plus four strength and "Look, Ma, No Hands" begins to almost somersault up
a hanging silk in the middle of the stage and it's just hanging on by his tail
to allow his thighs to swing around and take different poses and go upside down so that you guys have more room
down below to dance. Great. As you climb up the silk,
you glance up and see the rope is mostly frayed halfway
and it's only hanging by two threads. What do you do? Have I been sabotaged? (laughs)
It's Mafauna! Oh geez! Um, um. What do I do?
As you're spinning, legs out, akimbo. Are there, is it the only rope? You feel the rope go. (imitates branch cracking)
Or are there other ropes? (imitates branch cracking) (laughs) The Acme jerk. Yeah. (laughs)
There are two other silks that aren't descended. There's just the central silk at the moment. The others don't have a cue yet to descend,
so they're just out of the actual stage framing, but they're up. All right.
Well, it's going to go, so I'm going to swing forward, and swing back,
and swing forward and hope it holds long enough, and then I will somersault off and try to land in the splits. Make an agility check for me please.
Come on. In the splits. The trim. The definition of death drop. (laughs) Yes.
I know what that is. Yay! (laughs) All right, all right.
So, it's just the d12s plus agility. Is there anything else I can give myself
that I'm forgetting? If you don't have an experience that you think will pertain, then no. Well, does "look ma, no hands"
dismounting from a rope help? Well, not (laughs) in this instance. (laughs)
Okay, there we go. It's happening. It is a 16 with fear.
16 with fear. All right. And I'm very afraid, and I mean-- Pull back, and as you leap off, it detaches,
but as you, the momentum you pulled puts you outward and your tail, (imitates tail whipping) catches the silk above you.
As you dangle, the whole audience, (gasps) gives a giant collective gasp, and then there's some light clapping down below.
Split open my thighs and then hold the dogs. You're all right. You're all right. (laughs)
She's got puppies too? And dogs. Oh, these dogs? (laughs) Yeah.
Ha-ha. So, the silk fell onto the stage. (imitates silk thudding) Into the middle, and there was a gasp,
but then everyone's like, oh, it's part of the show. Left and right, we both grab one side of the silk. And run to the other. Yeah.
And do a flowy thing. And are starting to do a thing together with the-- All right. As you both go skittering off to the side,
you realize too late that there is a small oil slick on the edge of the stage. Guys, what the fuck! Oh my god.
100% that bitch. Yes. (laughs) Oil slick? Hits oil. (laughs)
Mario Kart shit this is. 2600. This is a Atari 2600 game. Some sort of a viscous fluid that's clear
is on the wood stage, and the light just catches it as you are scooting towards it.
Oh no! So, I need you to make either an agility or a finesse roll.
Let's a-go! Okay. Your choice. I will do a finesse roll.
Oh, that's in. And I'm going to use one of my seaborne abilities and I'm going to add a fear thing that I got
to add a extra thing to that. Okay. A plus one.
Ah. Oh! Oh! That's a crit! (laughs) Yes! Double nines, baby!
Your roll was with fear earlier, right? Yes. Yes. So, I get to add a hope and lose a stress. I just did so well. (laughs) Yeah.
With that slick. So, as it comes towards you, you-- Did it. Describe how you avoid this slippery part of the stage.
I don't avoid it. I go with it. Yes. And having launched the splits up above,
I drop into a death drop, and. So, as you hit, you slide in.
I slide in. It sends you towards the front and the lip end of the stage, and you actually go off the front of the stage,
but you're holding one end of the silk, which Sir Dante's holding the other, and what first is a scare of you about to slide off,
instead, you get spun around, across and over the front row.
As you dive, it just swings you. People with the oil be like. Yup. (laughs) Oh! Oh! People in the front row, just all you see is just a collection of barely-lit faces
going, oh. What a move! As you scoot by and then back onto the stage, you catch her, and you both spin around and get back to your feet.
Oh, I really want to be at this burlesque show. (laughs) Yes, yes. Seeing this, you know, because I'm in tune with my performers.
We're all on the same wavelength. Seeing this as Sweetpea flies out,
I do a big, you know, flying jete leap as I kind of leap over the ribbon and Sweetpea,
and then land on the other side, you know, working in sync with everybody. Fantastic.
Go ahead and make an agility roll for me. All right. I can do that. This is great. You got it. I got this. (gasps)
A donut! Mysterious-- Donuts! Donut drop! Whoa. Yes! Rob. Dangerous. It's a trap.
I love you! Wow, why come? La la la, no need, no mind?
Can I use my Leap ability? I can easily leap up to close range across gaps or chasms
without making an agility roll. Yeah, then yeah. Don't have to make a roll then. Yeah. I don't make a roll because I'm a bunny
and I do a little- Oh, you're a faun. I'm a faun that looks like a bunny. A funny. I'm funny. You're a funny. A funny. Yup.
Don't even have to roll. Just (whooshes) make a leap. Land, amazing pose. It feels,
much like the jazzy intro, a lot of this performance feels very avant-garde and improvised, but then the moments of slickness,
the audience goes, oh no. This is all deeply rehearsed to look improvised,
which is an incredible skill. Fully rehearsed. Totally. Oppie, what are you contributing to this performance?
Oh, I'm not in it. Wait, Oppie's not in it. No, sorry, no, sorry. No, that's-- I'm out in the prom. Just us four. That's right. Then you finish.
Actually, each of you has gone and done some bit of this. Sir Dante, you made an assist to-- Made an assist, yeah.
To Sweetpea. What's your personal? I'm now attempting to take the silk and use it as sort of,
since you finished up your flare move, I'm then pulling it in, and are you-- Spin out and pull it.
You're spinning out through it, and then I'm doing just some wonderful ribbon work with it, and just moving and sort of accentuating everything
that Bunnie's doing in the back. Just moving it like a wonderful-- You're putting it between your legs. Yeah, occasionally wrapping--
Flossing. Yeah, the flossing. A bit of floss. Okay. I'll say go ahead and make a presence roll for me
to pull off the maneuver with this silk in a way that both draws in the group's maneuvers as a whole
and feels like it's a cohesive unit as opposed to you just showboating with this piece. Presence piece. Yeah, of course. I was going to say, because I would use,
I have a skill for this, an experience for this, but it might be too much. Flossing. Which is hottie in a half shell.
Oh, hottie in a half shell would definitely contribute to this. All right. Yeah.
This is what you're made for, bro. So true. (laughs) So, spend a hope and you can add your proficiency bonus to this.
All right. Spend hope and yeah, experience bonus. Sorry, yeah.
All right. This always makes me nervous. Other than fear, it's pretty good.
That's a 25 with fear. 25 with fear, okay.
So, you managed to pull off this fantastic display with the silk, almost wrapping it around you like a boa constrictor.
It almost seems to have a flare of its own. And as you tether it around each of your friends
on stage with you, it almost seems to work like a needle in thread,
kind of tying all of their individual little perfunctory performances into one solid, odd but enticing piece.
As you come around the other side and as your dance begins to come to crescendo, you hear this,
dozens, maybe hundreds of tiny little clacks,
(imitates bearings pattering) in this saint buzzing sound as you're all maneuvering,
and you see a whole cluster of ball bearings just pour onto stage from underneath the back curtain.
I need all of you to make a group action agility roll
to avoid this. So, who wants to be the leader of this action? Can I ask a question? Hmm?
Don't forget your fear. Oh no. I can take a fear if I want to. Gotcha. This action here is resulting from the fear roll,
but thank you. (laughs) Is there any kind of shadow on stage? Any kind of shadow? Uh-huh.
I mean, there's the shadows you cast, but the bright light's on you. Primarily outside of anything that you cast,
there's nothing behind you, nothing around you. But there are shadows. There are shadows.
And technically, a bunch of really tiny ones. (laughs) Is it possible to,
as I see that start to happen, to spin around and hit the shadow of Bunnie
and disappear into the shadow? Yeah, I'd allow that. Okay. I'm going to try to integrate it into the show.
I'll disappear into Bunnie's shadow and then I'm going to reappear under a table
in front of the stage. Okay. So, you go behind her right as all these ball bearings scoot out, roll behind,
and then just disappear from view. It's almost like you just wiped camera and then vanished, and it was like. (gasps)
Then you kind of plop. There's no table, but there are the long benches, and you kind of appear underneath one of the front row long benches
and the people sitting there go, whaa? (laughs) I get up and stand on the bench and make a show
in case anybody trips and falls. I'll try to distract from that. You got it. All right. Simultaneously, Xarlo's tamarind form,
which is upside down, it has been for most of this time, seems to almost plummet down the length of this silk,
but then stops short, held by tail and legs, and I reach out my hands and I grab Bunnie's hands
and pull up with the tail just a few inches so that she can flex, floating in midair, holding her there,
and we start to twirl, spin in a circle. Yes, great. Great. So, the only person who is left to make a roll is you.
I was going to say, unless of course you allow me to do a complex dance move
where I go and backspin on my shell. On your shell on ball bearings!
And let the ball bearings pass, and could-- Yeah, I'll allow that be the flavor for the agility roll. You have to avoid it
because this is from the fear that you rolled. Yes, of course. So, go ahead and roll, and if you succeed in this, then indeed, you are able to do just that.
Mother of god, do this to me. Yay! (laughs) (babbles)
13 with hope. 13 with hope.
So, you do manage to slide on them with your shell. The momentum that you carry
makes it challenging to control the direction you go once your shell hits the momentum. So, you do full on, (imitates engine roaring)
and you just go careening and spinning kind of in an arc around the stage. Roll a d20 for me. Wobbly ass hockey puck.
(laughs) Yeah. Gods, look at that woman and her gams! Eight.
Eight. (laughs) Oh no. (whooshes) You go off stage beyond the curtain and out of view,
and while you are all striking a finale pose as the music crescendos, you hear. (imitates shell clanging)
(laughs) Do we hear it? It's all fine.
It's all fine. It's all fine. Does the audience hear? Does the jazzy music cover it up? Kind of?
I end with a big Enrapture moment, and that's when you see the pink,
the pink slowly dissolve to my black leathery dominatrix-y outfit as,
using Enrapture and my magic to hopefully distract. Okay. So, when you cast Enrapture, it's a reaction roll,
or are you rolling against the targets? I roll against the targets. Okay. I'll say go ahead and make a roll against the audience
as a collective entity. Okay, it's a spellcast roll. Plus four.
My presence. Okay. (babbles) 13.
13. Now, the audience-- With hope. With hope. The audience has already been pretty enthralled by this.
I'd say you managed to keep a lot of them enraptured. What could have been a majestic ending
is now a very good one. You mitigated some of it. Disappointed! (laughs)
It was going so good! But the audience still cheers. There's still claps. The finale is glorious and well appreciated.
Everyone starts, you know, really getting into the energy and vibe of this. A number of people kind of give
small standing ovations off to the side. Immediately, the stagehands rush off and start setting up for the next performance
as the curtains come to a close. In the interim, the two of you. Yes. All of this. What have you been up to?
(laughs) I'm going to grab a tray before leaving. Before we left out of the backstage.
We had a lot of trays from all the drinks I paid for. So I'm just going to just walk around
and pretend I'm a waiter here at this fine establishment and try to just listen in
and see if I can find anybody that looks like a rich baron.
Okay. Or just listen in. Yeah. Go ahead and make an instinct roll for me,
if you don't mind. Okay. I'll make an instinct roll.
(Taliesin faintly speaks) (laughs) Okay. So, we've got
(laughs) 19 with hope. 19 with hope, so you take a hope.
Okay. I mean, listening in and keeping an eye out. There's a lot of people that are dressed very well here.
There could be a number of people that are maybe barons. You haven't really met any barons in your time. You don't really know what a baron would look like
other than probably a rich person, and a few of these look like they're fairly wealthy and well dressed. But based on what you had heard
from Sweetpea and Bunnie earlier, the only conversation that really catches your attention,
though it does indeed catch your attention, are a couple of individuals complaining
about how the closure of the Gulch Bottom Mine
has stifled business frustratingly and they can't seem to clear out the mine.
You hear one person be like off to the side, it's getting extremely difficult
to keep our partners at bay. We tell them that we're just taking stock of what we have
and are dealing with a weather incident, but
it's just not safe to go in there. And an individual goes, I understand, but nevertheless,
we have to ensure that we get things rolling soon or we're going to find ourselves in bankruptcy.
That's what you pick up on that passing conversation. Okay. What are you up to, (laughs)
Miss Kexon? I'm not as subtle. You said they're benches, right?
It's not individual chairs? Correct. Like, two to three people to a bench usually. So, I'm just picking a random bro
and just walking through the row. 'Scuse!
'Scuse! (laughs) 'Scuse! (laughs)
Just trying to pick up conversation as I move. And then also going,
Champion's Crown! Champion's Crown! (laughs)
Oh! Oh! (laughs) And just moving,
trying to be as much of an obstacle in the crowd as I can be as I walk. (laughs) Saying buzzwords.
Seeing who picks up on it. See who turns their head. Yeah.
Okay. Go ahead and make, make an instinct roll first to pick up any wayward conversation.
It's a 15 with hope. 15 with hope, okay. Go ahead and take a hope.
Listening around and saying what you're saying, you do catch up someone kind of muttering nearby
as you bump into them, and be like, why is she talking about Champion's Crown?
Obviously it looks like she's not even from there. Good, good, good. Yeah, that's what I need.
That's exactly what I need. I start looking for Oppie.
Moo! (laughs) I'll try and find Oppie near the back.
Okay. All right. You got anything? No. (laughs) Oh, you're doing a whole voice.
Well, what? Are you not doing a voice? No, I was just doing this, but you're really committing to the bit.
No, I was-- (laughs) I can do a voice as well! Did you find out anything? No! Well, I guess I did. (laughs)
Yes, I did. I did. These gentlemen over here at the side were talking.
Kick into Miss Piggy. Hi-yah! (laughs) They were saying
that it's really hard to work in the mines, that they can't go down there because, you know,
the seep. Yeah, what was the name of the mine? It was the gulch mine. The Gulch Bottom Mine? Yeah.
Oh, good. That was the one. That was the one they were talking about. We should go tell the others. Well, they're in the middle of a show!
(laughs) Is it going on or is it finished? This is happening while they're performing, and you're kind of wandering around listening.
How good are they? They are so good. (laughs) They're not watching you, liar.
No. (laughs) 'Scuse. 'Scuse.
'Scuse. (laughs) In listening back in
to those individuals that were talking about the mine as the performance comes to a close,
you also pick up one of them referring to, well, I'll check in with Foreman Clive.
We'll see if the professor has what he needs and perhaps can notify us
on how soon he can get back in there. And the Professor?
Yep. That sounds like a show from the '70s.
"The Professor"? "Foreman Clive and the Professor." "And the Professor." (laughs) Oh, yeah. Probably grew up watching that on Nick At Nite. It's my prog rock band. (laughs)
Yeah. (laughs) (laughs) I just got a name. Foreman Clive-
Great. (laughs) and the Professor. (laughs) Good deal. Do you want to go sit with them and talk?
Do a little flirting? Is that their names?
I don't know. Yeah, let's go over. Where are they? Point 'em out. Follow me. Okay.
(laughs) I don't know, I'm doing the walk where instead of opposite arms with legs, it's the same. It's just one.
(laughs) In the thigh-high boots? (laughs) In the thigh-high boots. Amazing. These are so hard to walk in. I've decided
I also have a cat of nine tails for no reason. (laughs) All right, now that you- It's that long.
approach them directly as opposed to just overhearing, you can see one of them is a squat-looking dwarf gentleman with this massive handlebar mustache,
curls almost back to his ears. His hair parted in the middle. It kind of looks like a more muscular Pringles guy-
(laughs) Amazing image. Yes. sitting down with his little button-up vest- Oh, I want.
(laughs) and overcoat with his chain on it. Mr. Peter? (laughs) And to the right, you see is this
scrawny, older, elf humanoid
with a bit of a razor-thin gray goatee.
Almost like if John Waters just couldn't stop and went around the entire front. His hair is kind of coiffed back
into almost a lazy wolverine flare. Cool. Kind of comes up on the sides. Wow. Wow. And he's got the small,
little spectacles at the end of his nose. And he's dressed in a golden-green suit. And they're both just kind of sitting next to each other.
Good evening, gentlemen. Oh. I put two napkins down. Thank you. What could I get you
to drink? Usually they come with drink, but the napkins is very an odd forethought. I appreciate that. (laughs)
Yes, some people are messy. (laughs) And you look like
you would be messy. Mm, excuse. (laughs) (laughs) That's bold, I don't get that very often.
I appreciate that. I like a bold woman. (laughs) What would you like? (laughs) After, "Bold woman," I take the cat of nine tails
and I go. (smacks) (laughs) (claps) (smacks) Ow.
Oh. (laughs) Excuse. (laughs)
And if I might ask, darling, what's your name? Tata.
(laughs) Tata? Tartar? Tata. Tata. Tay-Tay? Tata. Tata. Tata. Tata, well,
are you busy this evening? (laughs) Mm, excuse.
(laughs)
Right. (laughs) That could be arranged,
if you would like to also have a private moment with Tata.
It's good news? Mm, excuse. (laughs)
I don't recognize that accent. Where are you from, Tata? (giggles) (laughs)
Whack. (laughs) (smacks) (laughs)
Do you hit him again? No. (smacks) Oh. Excuse. (laughs)
He gives an elbow nudge to his compatriot, "I don't normally come this feisty
in the middle of a public space." And his companion (laughs) is like,
"Well, this is making me a bit uncomfortable." (laughs)
I panic, grab one of the drinks, I just chug it. (laughs) "Excuse," and I leave to go refill the drink
while Oppy handles this. All right. (laughs) "Two whiskeys for me and my compatriot and- Two whiskeys.
just," and he hands a little slip over paper over, "let us know where my friend can find Tata
when the show is over." (laughs) Oh yes, I will absolutely let you know. Of course.
What were your names, by the way? Just what were your names? They both look a little careful.
Make a presence roll for me. Okay. Oh, you get advantage with presence rolls.
Oh, to shrug off scrutiny, nevermind. Okay. (laughs) Oh, well, kind of scrutiny. Presence roll? Okay, okay. If it ever gets
to that point, we'll get there. Okay, okay, okay. Ooh. (laughs)
Okay. That was amazing. No I need to see- We've got- where this goes. (laughs) You're like, "Mm." That was amazing.
19 again with hope. Great, take a hope. "I'm Thomas, and my compatriot."
"Oh, I'm Urion, darling." And the dwarf's meaty hand
that's barely fitting through his sleeve grabs yours and pulls it in for a kiss. The hand is just so
wet and slimy. He goes. Is Urio Mr. Pringle? (laughs)
Is he the one that has the Mr. Pringle? Oh yeah, with the big old Mr. Pringle mustache, which-- Thomas and Mr. Thomas and Urion. Thomas is the half-elf?
Urio. Urio. Urio. Ooh. The irony of having a hand that can fit into one of those cans, right?
Urion. (laughs) Urion. With an N at the end. Oh, oh, Urion. You know what? He pulls back and his mustache
is already immediately just kind of frothy at the kiss. Like. (spits) Ew.
(laughs) Gross. Ew. Let me-- That's from you. (laughs) I know.
What a... Anyway. (laughs) I will get back to you about some alone time with Tata,
and two whiskeys, correct? Oh, (laughs) indeed, indubitably. (laughs)
I will be back. I apologize for my friend. Oh, no need for apologies.
Enjoy the show. (laughs) (claps) Ah. In the meantime, as you all step off stage,
the Matron Audra is like, "That was fantastic. Well done.
Please do stick around for the final curtain call." Oh. As she steps out. And for the final-- Oh, Audra, Audra, wait.
She's already stepped out onto the stage. (gasps) And you see-- I levitate her, I cast Levitate on her.
On? I don't want her to break an ankle on the ball bearings. Oh, they've all been cleared by the stagehands between.
Oh, well then. Oh, well then fuck it, she's on her own. Okay. (laughs) As it's closed, the stagehands rush out,
they clean everything, they bring out and wheel out this massive curved set of stairs that leads up 15 feet.
And there's a fountain thing that's set towards the base of it that's a pool of water
that kind of sprays water out around it. They also put all amazing silks up as well.
They bring down the other two silks that weren't part of your performance. They come around the sides, and you can see the stagehands
that kind of set it all up rush off and take off their stagehand clothes, and now they're all in these dancers' garb,
as Mafauna steps out, takes off her robe and is wearing this incredible leather bustier
with hooked horns that come up the front. Oh.
She has this long, tattered robe of weird, chiffon-type material
that kind of flows as she walks, as she gets behind the stage and prepared. You all get to watch from the side
as the matron Audra says, "And please enjoy for the night,
back here after a long time abroad and hopefully for a residency for some time to come,
the world-renowned performer, Mafauna." As she steps off stage,
the audience cheers for a bit, and gets quiet. Curtains open,
(shunts) lights kick on, and this mystical music begins to play around the chamber,
a massive brass band out of nowhere begins to blast the front row, as she immediately goes into an amazing routine.
Her five backup dancers spreading around and all kind of throwing left and right
various performing pieces. The choreography is stunning already at the base. Is she up the stairs or is she?
She's not up the stairs yet. Okay. They're just kind of performing around the stage. Okay. For some reason, I'm suddenly suspicious.
I want to keep an eye to see if anything looks dangerous on stage in a way that it shouldn't. Suddenly suspicious? Well, I'm curious.
I'm going to be keeping an eye out, I just want to see if anything looks like it also has a little sabotage, just in case.
Oh, like it wasn't her? If it wasn't her, yeah. Mm-hmm. Make a presence, or sorry, a instinct for me please.
An instinct roll, yeah. That's 18 with fear.
18 with fear. The intensity of looking around the stage,
as you're kind of glancing for it, you get near the curtain to try and inspect- Oh, oh, oh. as one of the dancers swings wide
and kind of gives you a stare as you do. And you recoil immediately, almost getting caught by it. You do take a stress
from the passing by of this performance, but you do feel pretty confident.
The areas where they were placed where the slick was, they've already been cleaned up by the same stagehands
that changed into her backup dancers. Mm. And you feel pretty confident that most of the things
that are set on the stage don't have any immediate signs. of damage. Okay, interesting. The staircase that got wheeled out,
is it hollow or was it solid? I mean, it was only moved by two people, so it seems like it's likely hollow
but structurally sound enough to take a singular fawn to its top for a finale. Okay, okay.
You watch as the two silks now get picked by two of the dancers, who begin doing a trading silk,
almost like a trapeze in the silk sort of scenario, where they both use momentum to spin and twirl, and then come around, and then switch sides,
and then carry off into another bit of momentum, their legs wide. She's singing, and throwing magical confetti into the air as she does so.
She strolls out and leaps off the front of the stage and goes through the front of the audience, as she does, the other dancers come on stage
into a five-point performance array, as they go left to right. And then eventually they curl around,
one of them pulls the cloth off the top of the water. She then cartwheels back up onto the stage
and lands on her feet, still singing, doesn't even miss a beat. Then the backup dancers begin to fan out,
and you watch as they pull out their own fans. (gasps) And Mafauna, within her robe,
pulls out two beautiful gilded fans that immediately (whooshes) burst into flames
at the sides. (gasps) (laughs) And she begins to fire flame dance as she sings, this amazing fire dance with them.
I could do that. I could do that. There's a permit issue with that, I'm pretty sure. I know, don't want to be a fire hazard.
The audience is enraptured. As it eventually builds to this incredible, musical, energetic crescendo,
the dancers all spread off into different rows. And one by one, they bow, as she continues singing,
as she takes off the armor and the bustier she had, which comes down to this beautiful kind of silk, sparkly slip
that drags along behind her. It tumbles out from underneath and goes into a train that wasn't there for most of the dance. Now she steps up the stairs.
I am going to Shadow Step and I'm going to bamph out underneath the steps.
Okay. (whooshes) You appear within the hollow steps, you're like, (cracks) (grunts) up inside.
It's pretty tight, but you're there. And you can hear the. (thuds) As I hear her get higher and higher,
I'm just going to hit the side of the step. (laughs)
Make a strength roll for me. (laughs) I'm going to use this.
I'm going to add my last fear additional thing. I've got nothing to add to this.
So it's just going to be that and this. Laura Bailey, the mushroom that you are. (laughs) Okay.
Oh, (laughs) okay. 13 with fear. 13 with fear, okay.
So- I just need a little (grunts) jostle. you (shunts) jostle it, and you hear her, as she's in the process of singing, she's like.
♪ And you won't ever know the ♪ (grunts) (yelps) (thuds) Aw.
(laughs) You hear, (gasps) the whole audience in a heavy gasp,
as you, all of a sudden, the intensity of not knowing if you just killed her or not hits you-
(laughs) I'm going to Phantom Retreat. you take a stress. Okay, I take another stress. (laughs) Yes, you do. (laughs) Oh Jesus.
Cast Wildfire on the stage. (whooshes) That's two stress on that. (laughs) But I'm going to spend a hope.
(screams) And you get a hope from that roll. I'm going to spend a hope. The music stops. And I'm going to instantly Phantom Retreat
back to the green room. (whooshes) All right, you appear back at the green room. The rest of you just watched as Sweet Pea vanished.
And a moment later, (laughs) the staircase (shunts) shifts. Mafauna, just ass over tea kettle. (thuds)
The dress becomes just a Sonic the Hedgehog spin ball of silk- Yes. as she twirls down, hits the ground,
(scratches) skids out a bit. Full-on spread eagle on the side, dazed,
kind of a little bit of blood trickling down her head. And the backup dancers go, "Ta-da." (laughs)
(claps) There's a couple of claps. (claps) Is she moving? She gets back up
and she's like. (pants) Is she all right? (laughs) She moving? And gives a big bow. As she does the bow, (laughs)
I'll go, "Mm, Mafauna," (laughs) and I'll cast Time Lock as she's bent over. (laughs)
It has to be an inanimate object. What do you cast on? Oh, (laughs) oh, it has to be an inanimate object. Nevermind, I won't do it. Damn it.
The bustier, the bustier. (laughs) Yeah, the bustier. For sure, the bustier. Yeah, yeah, yeah. (laughs) The horned bustier. (laughs) Sure. Well, she took off the horned bustier.
Aw. Aw, man. But she has bracelets on.
I will say, because she's a little disheveled, you do see the wig line. (gasps) Ooh. Yes.
(laughs) The wig line's good. (laughs) Even better. She goes into a bow- Oh, way worse.
and stays there. (laughs) She can't come up from a bow, that's hilarious. (grunts) (laughs)
(claps) Why is she not getting up? (laughs) What is going on? (laughs)
Help me. (laughs) Help me. She's shouting out to the backup dancers to come over,
and they all kind of try and lift her up. (grunts) (laughs) Oh god. The audience is getting up and looking strange over there.
Now it's them trying to roll against your-- Yeah, and if they make a move against it, they have to make a spellcast roll against them
to maintain the spell. All right, so make a spellcast roll for me. (laughs) They're going to try and pull her free.
Oh, that's not very good. Aw. Nine with hope. Nah, they rolled a 12. Yeah. So they do (pops) pull her free.
The wig kind of comes up and is off kilter now at this point. (laughs) (huffs) Even better.
She goes and huffs off stage rapidly. And right as she gets the edge, a hand (thuds) stops her,
as it's the Matron Audra, and goes, "Quite the performance, dear.
Time for curtain call. (claps) Performers, please to the stage." You watch as Eden steps out,
the rest of the backup dancers kind of gather around. Do you all join as well? Yes. Yes. The whole company, right?
Yeah. Where's Sweet Pea? (whimpers) Oh.
(laughs) Should I come back? I don't know. (laughs) Nobody saw you, right? Wait, didn't you go back to the green room? I went to the green room. You went to the green room?
Just come join, I don't know. Sure, I'll wander out, and see that curtain call's happening.
Okay, so as everyone scoots out there, all the two performance troops and Eden all gather.
And then a moment later, (dings) this little kind of slightly lagging figure arrives.
Thank you all so much for coming to this quite memorable and unexpected display of pratfalls and follies
mixed with some fantastic, worldly, experimental dance routines.
The athleticism on display tonight has been quite unforeseen.
(laughs) Anyway, please, Eden, our fantastic grinding katari.
As she gives a big bow, the audience (claps) kind of cheers and claps. Whoo. To Bunny and the Menage a Trois.
(claps) Audience loudly claps and cheers. Whoo. (laughs) And our main performance
from abroad, Mafauna. And Mafauna (cracks) gets the wig right, looks out. Whoo. And the audience is
(claps) kind of cheering a little bit. Whoo. You see people are starting to get up a little bit and kind of grumble.
They cheered for me more. They cheered for me more. (laughs) You see the matron walks off stage, "Thank you all so much for coming, goodnight."
As she steps off and-- I cast Time Lock on Mafauna's foot. (laughs) Do you? (laughs) Do it?
(laughs) On her shoe. On her shoe? Yeah. (laughs) She goes. (grunts) Shoo, get off the stage.
She looks back. Does she see you? Oh no. Well, she sees you moving something,
"I am done with this." Looks at her backup dancers,
"Get them." (gasps) And you watch the backup dancers all kind of, "All right,"
and then begin to encircle around her. And the audience was about to leave, all of a sudden, turn back and begin to get back to their seat-
Oh. as the matron from off stage goes, "What's going on?" (laughs) And now you just have- You just started a fight. (laughs)
Right? Oh my god. (laughs) Sexy fight. and the four of them
and the five backup dancers in their fauna now squaring off here in center stage.
Oh. Oh. (claps) What? What? What? Yes. We have a map. This is the best ever.
I didn't dare to hope, and it's true. Burlesque bar fight. (laughs) Ah. Oh my god.
Oh my gosh, this is so cool. What? What the hell? Whoo. Oh. (laughs)
Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. He's ready for anything, at any time. Oh my god. Look at the audience. (laughs)
You knew we were going to be-- I knew there was a chance you guys were going to be little shits. (laughs)
Oh my god. Oh my god. Do I spy a little-- And so we'll come back after break
and see how this unfolds. Oh. Hey. Aw. Oh my god. Hold on, let me take my earrings off. (laughs)
Hold my hoops. See you in a few minutes. Marisha: Oh my god. 

Break[]
(peaceful music)
(music builds)
MATT: Previously on Critical Role and the adventures of Bells Hells. Warning, spoilers ahead.
DANI: Mayhem followed the Apogee Solstice as the dubious Archmage Ludinus Da'leth and his band of devoted followers, the Ruby Vanguard, came one step closer to their goal of killing the gods of Exandria. By activating the Malleus Key, Ludinus created the Bloody Bridge, a magical means of traveling to the surface of Ruidus, the moon prison for the god- eating cosmic entity, Predathos. After failing to stop Ludinus, Bells Hells traveled across Exandria and beyond, gathering new allies, intel, and abilities before crossing the Bloody Bridge themselves and arriving on Ruidus where they experienced Ruidian society. They allied with a rebellious faction known as the Volition and assisted in their explosive plot to overthrow their telepathic government called the Weave Mind. Bells Hells' attempt to escape the moon was cut off by Otohan Thull, a deadly Vanguard general. It was here that FCG heroically sacrificed himself to save his friends and finally kill Otohan. The grieving group left Ruidus where they reunited with their beloved friend, Dorian, and delivered their moon reconnaissance to the Exandrian Accord. Ludinus himself is currently in Aeor, dealing with a fiendish wrinkle in his plans called the Dominox. This demonic entity, who once powered aspects of Aeorian technology, has been unleashed and threatens Ludinus' access to the ancient tech that he requires to release Predathos. Bells Hells and their guide, Essek Thelyss, have braved the ruins of Aeor where innumerable foes and dangerous magical chaos reside. There, they discovered that the Dominox's influence drove members of the Vanguard to slaughter each other, and the Hells could very well be the entity's next target. There was no telling what chaos could threaten Exandria's last hope there in a place that even the gods despise.
♪ (tense instrumental music) ♪ (pen scribbling)
(adventurous music)
(tavern music)
LAURA: Hey Critters! Laura Bailey here to guide you through what's new in the Critical Role shop. Oh my gosh, it's so amazing. Roll an investigation if you want. It's basically perfect. The cuteness! It's overpowering. (gasp) Could anything be more perfect? Look at this. Isn't it fashion? So much fashion happening here. This is a lot of stuff, you guys. We have, like, so many cool things right now. Style should never be a dump stat, darling. Darling, I'd recommend buying two, one for you, and another for you, let's be honest. And hey if you want, you could head over to the Critical Role shop right now.
(door opening) [studio audience laughter] [light applause] FATHER: Honey, kids, I'm home!
MOTHER: Welcome home, dear. [studio audience laughter] MOTHER: And you know what night it is?
CHILD 1 and CHILD 2: It's Thursday night! MOTHER and FATHER: (laugh) ♪ (upbeat TV theme) ♪
NARRATOR: This summer, get the membership the entire family can enjoy!
Your one-stop shop for the world of Critical Role. FATHER: (laughs) NARRATOR: Including a 10% discount in all our shops,
live event pre-sales, a private Discord. FATHER: The popcorn monster!
NARRATOR: And instant access to all podcasts and VODs for all your favorite shows. CHILD 1: Hurry up, Mom!
CHILD 2: Critical Role is about to start! ♪ (upbeat TV theme ends) ♪ (remote control click) (ominous flashing) NARRATOR: With Beacon,
all your dreams can become a reality. Beacon will introduce you to what has been
and what could be. CHILD 1: Is Sam turning into a sunflower?
MOTHER: No, Son, Sam has always been a sunflower. (static crackling) CHILD 2: Is Sam my father?
FATHER: No, I'm your father. NARRATOR: Beacon will bring you to the edges of the
(distorted) cosmic threshold. (distorted speech and gnashing)
(distorted speech and gnashing) (increasing beeping and powering up)
(chirping notification) MOTHER: Oh, the new episode of Candela just dropped. FATHER: Oh, spooky.
[studio audience laughter] ♪ (upbeat TV theme) ♪ NARRATOR: Beacon. Endless stories, endless possibilities.

Part II[]
MATT: And welcome back. Alright, so as we left off here, as we have the stage performance here with the audience before us, over here we have (laughs) still in their general forms--
Ta-ta! Ta-ta! We have Kexon/Ta-ta. (laughs) (laughs) And Oppy over here, and there's shows. I'm using this Fearne mini to represent Mafauna 'cause it seems like fitting. Ugh, so appropriate.
And this is her backup dance troupe over here, after taking a bow. The rest of you are scattered here in this bit.
But, in this aggressive point where the audience has stopped and looked forward, I'm gonna go ahead and use one Fear to get two action tokens.
And I'm gonna go ahead and spend those two action tokens and that Fear to have Mafauna be like,
"Catch them, please," and point over. And the backup dancers are gonna go ahead and use Choreographed Ensemble,
so they get to choose a target and activate all of them within a close range of you,
which I think is all of them. How frickin' serious do these dancers look as a physical threat?
Have you ever met a dancer? You'll find out in a minute. (laughs) We're fucked. Oh, they all charged you, Bunnie?
They all move in on Bunnie. Bunnie! A very powerful ax. Whoa, whoa, whoa. They make one shared attack roll.
That is gonna be a 14, does that beat your evasion? Yeah. Alright.
So on a success, they deal six physical damage each. That's five of them together, so you take 30 points of physical damage.
What? (laughs) What? Okay, wait, it's 30? Yeah.
They all rush towards you and do a giant spinning maneuver like a wonderful ensemble piece. And as they do, you get pummeled as they turn
(imitating pummeling) from all sides. And as they all come to a landing flourish, you kind of fall to your knees
feeling this whirlwind of impacts that immediately bloodies your face. (gasps)
Yup, fantastic. (laughs) Fuckin' here for it. It's great, let's fuckin' go. I'm gonna take two armor
to drop it down to just major damage. Alright.
Boom, boom. 'Cause my severe... And then also, okay. (reading rapidly)
"And then clear all tokens. If you have any tokens, remain in this room." (reading rapidly) Stress.
Okay, so it's the next attack. Which I don't think I've done an attack since I did... Anyway, whatever.
I take two hit points. You do. Alrighty. Yeah. (laughs) Who wants to go?
Ah, I... Ooh, wait, are there-- ♪ Ooh baby, do you ♪
Are there any shadows next to me? I mean, the curtains cast shadows-
Yes-- Behind here casts shadows. I'm gonna run over to the shadow next to me and behind that curtain, (imitating running)
and I bamf out. And I'm gonna bamf out behind Mafauna and move forward.
(imitating whooshing) Over here? Yeah. I'm marking a stress, I'm almost outta my stress. Alrighty. (imitating whooshing)
Move forward. And I'm going to... I'm coming from hidden 'cause when you come out of the shadow, you're hidden.
Correct. So I successfully position myself. Oh God, another stress?
Geez Louise. They go fast. It's fine. (imitates whooshing) I'm gonna put her in a chokehold!
Okay. And use my staff and like put it over, and like pull her into me. Alrighty.
So go ahead and roll for that chokehold. Do I have to roll for it? What's it say? You can use an action to mark a stress
and pull them into a chokehold. Oh, so you just pulled 'em into it. I just do it! You do it. And now, she's vulnerable!
Alrighty. So as she's like pointing at the troop, kind of grinning at the beat down that she watched Bunnie get,
out of nowhere emerging from the shadows, the tiny little sneaky mushroom- Except I'm not a sneaky mushroom, I'm a sexy pink fairy.
That's right. (imitating whooshing) a sneaky little sexy pink fairy is now pulling her back and holding by the throat. (imitates choking)
Fantastic. Ah, if that's what's happening, I'm going to rush forward to what I see happening.
Mm-hmm. Get a nice... I'm gonna use Deadly Focus to apply all my focus towards this target.
Towards Mafauna? Towards Mafauna. Alright. So that just adds plus one to my proficiency.
You got it. So I am going to call off the brute squad and I'm going to, as only Dolly Parton can,
just give a full smack, hard across the face.
Sure. Alright, so go ahead and roll for that attack. That would be... I'm just gonna use my, I think grappler,
since I would just be using that as just a-- Go for it. Yeah. Now, she is vulnerable. Yes, so-- She's vulnerable!
So you get to go ahead and add a d6 to it. Okay, so that's-- Is it temporarily vulnerable or just vulnerable?
As long as I have her in the chokehold. How do you get outta the chokehold? That's a good question, Matt.
(laughs) Let me see. Every attack roll against them while they're vulnerable from your chokehold
adds 2d6 to the damage roll. Which is pretty cool. You add 2d6 to the damage roll.
Okay, so that would mean--- 1d6 to the actual attack, and the 2d6-- Okay, 1d6 for the actual attack, and I'm just gonna use--
Temporarily vulnerable, but I don't know-- Okay, temporarily means I can... Okay, I know how to get rid of it. Okay. Alright. I can spend a Fear too and a condition.
Got it. That was all over the place and it was a terrible roll.
That's 16, with Fear. 16 to-- Oh wait, plus...
I'm using my lower thing, so it'd be finesse, 17 with Fear. 17 just hits.
(sighs) (applause) Alright, so that's-- Alrighty. 17 (indistinct).
It just hits. Okay, okay. One, two, three. She's got a lot of evasion. One, two, three, four. She's a dancer.
Oh, we're now in celebrity dancing. And then, you add a d6 to-- 2d6. Okay, so there'll be three more d6 after these rolls.
Go for it. Alright. Now--
Mm-hmm? Before you do that-- Okay. 'Cause I just remembered something.
Mm-hmm. Before you roll that, roll a d6 for me.
Four. She has a reaction ability called Distracting Beauty. Mm-hmm.
When a creature makes an attack roll within close range of Mafauna, they have disadvantage in their attack. (gasps) So technically, that extra d6 you rolled earlier
technically would've canceled out the d6-- Oh no! So I wouldn't have hit. So your attack missed. Oh my God! So you just missed that.
Okay. So as you're rearing up to strike in the chokehold, you go to strike towards her and she catches you with that look.
"Oh, not in the face!" Like, perfect cheekbones, and you just go wide like, "How could I possibly hit"-- "Not in the face." "Aw, goddammit."
(laughs) She also weaponizes the male gaze. (laughs) Or really, the any gaze.
(laughs) Yeah. Weaponize the gaze. (laughs) She weaponizes the gaze!
(laughs) So that does bring it to a failure, which then brings it to me. Yes. I'm gonna go ahead and--
Happy Pride! (laughs) Alright,
I'm gonna go ahead and activate Mafauna and one of the... Actually, I'm gonna hold onto one of the other action tokens there.
I'm gonna activate Mafauna. She's gonna go ahead and use Kiss of Confusion. So while she still will hold there,
she's gonna glance over at...
Hmm.
Let's see. Uh. (Taliesin speaking indistinctly)
No actually, she's gonna hold off on that. Instead, I'm gonna use those two things to activate the backup dancers again
for a Choreographed Ensemble again on Bunnie. (gasps) Again? Wait,
I haven't done anything. Yeah. You're too hot. I'm too hot. That's gonna be a 13 hit.
Yes. I'm going to use my prayers and my holy presence
to subtract four from their attack. That makes it to a nine, does that beat your-- Miss! So, that's rad.
Nice. So as you concentrate in a moment and call upon the holy divine guidance of your goddess--
Find religion! (laughs) The ensemble goes into a spin,
and as they all bring their hands up into a lifted three-point swirl, you duck down
and they all just kind of scrape their knuckles against each other, and "Ow," landing. Don't do that.
But, miss you entirely. And on the tail end of that, if I may-- You may. I'll use my Divine Wielder ability, Spirit Weapon.
When I have a melee weapon equipped, which I do, I can send it out flyin', right? Mm-hmm. And I'm going to throw it towards this mini here
without the shirt right there. Right there? Right? Yeah. And I'm gonna simultaneously run the opposite side of the circle,
grab a silk and spin around, and I'm going to spend a stress
to target an additional target. So the axe is gonna hit the first two in that circle, careening around Bunnie's head,
hittin' those first two people. And then, I will meet my axe at the other side of the circle-- Right there? And catch it after it goes,
so yeah. You got it. So you go ahead and mark that stress and then (imitating whooshing) go ahead and lob that forward. Right there. Roll the attack.
There's a stress, and we add four crispers to that. Here we go. (counts) 12.
Is 16, with Hope. 16 succeeds. Hey! Go ahead and roll damage. That's two of them.
Yup. So that's 3d10. Where's my tens? I will do it three times.
Three, 11. Ooh, that's a low roll, that's a low roll. 12. 12, that's fine.
Both of them (imitates crashing) knocked on the ground immediately. They only have one hit point, they're minions.
So, (imitates weapon clanging) (imitates thudding) and then fall on the ground unconscious. Okay.
Fantastic, that finishes your go. Alright, I'll go. Whatcha got, Oppy?
Alright, I'm gonna step forward and I'm gonna see Mafauna and just put my hand out, and I'm gonna unleash Chaos.
Alright. So-- What's the range on that? That is far range.
Far range, so yeah, you could-- Can I... Do I-- Far range would be... Yeah, she's in range from there.
You can move forward if you want, or you can stay put, your call. I will stay put. Okay. 'Cause if there's a way to even back up
so nobody can see that it's coming from me. Excuse you. (chair creaking) No. We can certainly try. I mean, unleashing Chaos is pretty obvious.
You can certainly try. Unleashing Chaos is pretty-- Yeah, it's pretty obvious. Okay, so-- Outwardly aggressive. Chaoses.
(laughs) I have three tokens that are equal to my spell cast trait for the card. So I'm gonna use all three of those to roll 3d10s.
Well, roll to see if you hit first. Oh yeah, you're right. That's kind of important. I believe that's what it says, right, a spell cast roll against the target?
You can make a spell cast roll against the target. You got it. Is it against Mafauna? Yes. Okay.
Now you are far, you're out of her range and she is currently chokehold, so you do have an advantage in the attack roll. So add a d6 to it. Ha!
Ooh! Okay. So, she is vulnerable.
Okay, okay. So we got nine, 12.
(counts quietly) 19, with Fear. I keep rolling 19s. 19 with Fear is success,
but I will take that Fear. Okay. And you get to add 2d6 to your attack.
(snapping) Whoo! Okay, so I got 2d6 and 3d10s? Correct, all in one big hit. Sheesh!
Badass. Alright, alright, where are my d10s? Those look like the little diamonds.
Aur naur! Here's one. Aur naur! You can do this. And that's a jointy one. Thank you. That's all ya need? I don't think I have any d10s up here, sorry.
Okay, so we've got-- Ooh! (counts) 13.
And we need two more d10s. Uh, 13 plus-- (gasps) 23. 23.
Plus five. 28. 28, that's a major wound on Mafauna. She marks two hit points. Yes!
And describe how the unleashed Chaos looks from the side of the audience, what everyone else see?
So they just hear just like a scream of just like,
(screams) like a banshee scream. Okay. And it's just a circle of just like sounds...
What am I thinking of, like sound waves? Okay, so (imitates pulsing) outward? Yes. Does it like (imitates pulsing) kinda spreading out
and impacts Mafauna. As you see it coming, you kind of move Mafauna to be your shield--
I've seen this before. (imitates crashing) Strikes into her, (imitates crashing) her body shakes from the impact, unable to even dodge outta the way from your chokehold
and (imitates thudding) takes the brunt of the impact. (imitates moaning) I am also going to spend a stress to hit an additional target
because of my primal origin foundation. Oh 'cause you can do that, yeah. Yes.
And hit whoever else is up in her troop. Alright, so a third member of the ensemble goes down from the impact,
(imitates crashing) just blasted off the side of it. The curtain like blows back for a second before finding itself at rest.
Alright, that finishes your go. Since 'cause you rolled with Fear, it comes to me. Yes. And actually, I'll take a roll from that there.
So, top of this. First, I'm gonna go ahead and spend a Fear to end the chokehold.
So that condition is gone, she (imitates grunting) breaks free angrily. I'm gonna go ahead and...
Let's see here. I'm gonna activate an action on Mafauna. She breaks free, and she'll say,
"(panting) Don't just stand there!" Which is an action she uses, she gets to mark a stress to restore one hit point
to a number of backup dancers equal to her unmarked stress, which is five. Oh my God, okay. So each backup dancer gets back up.
Oh my God! (groans) Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, that's okay. She's gonna maneuver back this way
to kinda get behind them, and they all immediately activate
and they're all going to unleash again on-- Oh, she just moved? She did.
I'm going to use attack of opportunities-- 'Cause you can do that as a warrior, yeah. I can do that. Go for it. Make an agility reaction roll.
So that would be... Uh, come on. Ooh.
Nine, 10, 12? 12 does not hit, unfortunately. But, I'll take that Hope. Goes wide.
Go for it. They're all gonna go ahead and unleash on you-- Okay. (sighs) One more time. Gosh, Bunnie.
I know. (sighs) That's a six. I have something to do, but I haven't... Oh, miss! They rolled a natural three. (laughs)
They all get up, three of them are kinda woozy and they go, "Come on, get it together friends!" And they all kinda grab and have to lift them up,
but as they do, they're still kind of missing the synchronicity of their choreography. And as they all go into like a low lifting,
almost like a pyramid sort of formation, trying to kinda crumble down on top of you,
you just kinda sidestep and they (imitates thudding) hit the ground without issue, and then reform back up into their defensive position.
Yeah, being a dancer, I kind of pick up on their choreography and I'm just like, "Oh, I see what we're doing."
So you know in showgirl routines, how they'll be around the girl in the middle, and then she'll like come down
and then come back up with the flourish? (laughs) Yeah. (laughs) Bunnie kinda does that and she's like, "Oh, I see what we're doing."
And then she comes down and I'm going to do Rune Circle around me, so I spin
and you just see like these magical runes blast out. (imitates whooshing) I'm going to burn my Never Upstaged points
to add two proficiency to that. So any creatures in melee range of this circle,
or who enter, take 4d12 damage with this boost. Whew!
Whoa, 4d12? Yes 'cause I'm adding two from Never Upstaged.
Now, do you roll to cast the spell or does it just happen? It says, "Use an action to mark a stress"--
Okay, so use an action. So I need to do that. Bam. And I create a Magic Circle in the ground around it.
Oh yeah, it just happens. (imitates rumbling) I think it just happens. Alright, so go ahead and roll again. (laughs)
That one's cocked. Okay, okay. Oh wait, do I add my spell proficiency to this,
or is it just-- No, it's just the damage of the spell, I'm pretty sure. Just the damage to the spell. Okay, so that is--
It will tell you roll with proficiency on it, if it did, but. 24, 28 damage.
(imitates repetitive blasting) (laughs) You just clear them all out, leaving this Runic Circle there.
Oof. As they're all just now laying out, unconscious-- Standing in a little circle? In a semicircle around you. (imitates whooshing)
(imitates groaning) They're all just kinda groaning at their own pace. I really wanna know what the Runic Circle is.
You don't have to answer now, but at some point, I really need to know what actually is your Runic Circle? (laughs)
It's a booby. Yeah. (laughs) Does it follow you as you move, or does it stay stationary? I believe it stays stationary.
Okay. So it's just three circles. 'Cause I cast it on the ground. (imitates thudding) Right, cool. So, yes.
Alright, and you're staying put? Um, I guess for now 'cause they keep taking damage if they are in it,
and they are pushed out of the circle at the end of their action. Okay.
But it's at the end of their action. At the end of their action, they're pushed out. Yes. If they run into it, you mean? Yes. I'll say they get pushed out when they take the damage
is kind of how it works, so. Okay. They all get kind of (imitates whooshing) scattered out across the stage. Alright, does that finish your go?
Who's up next? Anyone, anyone? I think you haven't gone yet. Can Kexon run towards the stage? Yeah.
And then, I'll use Arcane Door to disappear and reappear close to where Mafauna is.
Alright. It's within far range. Far range, yeah, you can definitely get over here. Right near her.
So I make a spell cast roll to see if it works. Okay, that's... Actually, from where you were, far range.
Well, you moved up. Well, you ran forward, yeah. Yeah, you can do that. Beautiful. That is a 19 with hope.
19 with hope, take a hope. Beautiful. And then once I land there, can I use a shape material?
I'm gonna put my hand on the ground. Okay. I'm taking a knee in front of her and touch the ground.
I'll say, "Mind the trap door." And I will shape material to create a door in the floor right underneath her feet.
(laughs) That's awesome! Okay. (laughs)
Okay. Yes! Okay, I'll give her a reaction roll to this
to try and avoid the trap door. I'll roll this out here in the open because it's fun. That is a 12.
What is your spell? I'll say go ahead and roll your own reaction. I won't consider this a hope or anything
just to see where it's at. 15. 15. No, she fails. 19, actually.
Yeah, there you go. So she turns to you. What do you mean- Full in cartoon like (imitates legs whirring)
and falls in and vanishes below into the ground.
I'll go ahead and put a little dark circle there as to where the hole in the ground is. And you just hear (imitates body thudding).
(screams) Steps up and turns back to everyone. Excuse. (laughs)
Excuse. I'll say for that maneuver, go ahead and roll a d8 for me. A d8. This will be just the physical damage she takes
from the falling impact of the trap door. If I can identify a d8 in this point.
Eight. Eight, yeah, all right. She takes another hit point. (imitates body thudding) into the ground.
All righty. That was pretty slick. Thanks. Who's up next? So wait, is she gone? She has fallen through the stage.
She's in the underbelly. I ask a question. That's usually where the-- So what happens when you max out your stress?
Yes. When you max out your stress, you are considered vulnerable. Let her cry uncle. I've maxed out my stress.
Then you are considered vulnerable. Okay. And if you take any stress damage- Hey, you still have one left, don't you? No, I don't.
That's wrong. I have maxed out my stress. Okay, so yeah, so you are vulnerable until you get any stress back,
and all rolls against you have advantage. Uh-oh. And if you take any stress damage, one or more,
you take a hit point instead. Does somebody have a solution for that? Yes, I have a potion, so I can do that.
If you want to, yeah. Yeah, I'll take it. Go ahead and take a stamina potion. Take a stamina potion and then what do I do? I roll. You roll 1d4 and you clear that many stress.
Oh, amazing. Big money. (cheers) Four, baby.
No longer vulnerable. Wow, well, they're all down.
Should we run? Actually, you know what, I'm gonna spend two of these here to gain a fear. I'm gonna spend that fear to take my GM action now
and I'm gonna activate Mufana. (laughs) Activate Mufana! I know!
She is like minority report. Yes! She's going to leap back up out of this.
No! Like, "You girl!"
Ta-ta. (laughs) Ta-ta. Is going to step back towards the backstage area and say,
"What are you doing? Don't just stand there!" And she can use that action-- She's gonna do a thing. To get these, all of these to get back up.
She marks another stress. Well, she marks the stress, actually she can only get four up because she...
Four what? She only has four unmarked stress, so only these four can get up.
Oh, it's based on her stress. So is she full up on stress? No, no. Just to cement one stress.
Yeah, so every time she uses it, she marks the stress and she can only get up a number of people based on how many unmarked stress she has.
She got four people up, which can tell you she has four stress left. A lot of creatures and encounters, sometimes maxing out their stress can prevent them
from using abilities like this. But they're going to now activate as part of the don't just stand there,
and they're all going to go ahead. Hmm, I don't have anymore points to use that.
So now they're all just gonna activate and come in for individual swings on--
Ta-ta! This one is just gonna hit you. The three of them are gonna swarm you since you're the one who knocked her through the floor.
The one that's going to you, Xarlo, is gonna be gonna a natural 20. Oh. Now mind you, it's a backup dancer.
It's a minion. It doesn't have any dice rolls for damage. It just does six physical damage. I'll say as a crit, you take 12 points of physical damage.
12 points of physical damage. I will use my prayer die to help myself, which will get it below major damage
and I'll take minor damage instead. All right, so one hit point to you. But I can take an armor instead, correct?
Yes, you can. Alright, so glances off my armor. One more prayer die down. And that is...
Oh, and they're all gonna attack Kexon, correct? The three other ones are, yeah. So Kexon, against you. We have a 20 to hit, not a natural 20, but a 20.
Whoa, yeah it is. It's six points of physical damage. Okay. That is a 13 to hit.
Yes, of course it hits Six points of physical damage. Okay. And then nine to hit
Wait, I have this. What's your evasion? School of war. As long as I have two hope, I can add my spell casting trait to my evasion.
So with my knowledge plus four, it makes it 12. Oh, so it misses, woo. Yeah, third one misses.
First strike goes wide, but you take six points and then six points. Great, minor and minor. Alright, so it's two hip point marks on you.
That finishes their activation. Who's up next? I'll go. I'm gonna burn two armor slots and negate all.
Negate it, you got it. I'm gonna turn towards Mufana and say, "Ah, just take the loss already, will you girly?"
And I'll throw out my ax and let the handle conk her in the forehead. She's within close range, yeah.
Right. And I don't get her dealy that affects the gaze. It's not weaponized because I'm not in melee.
No, it's not in melee. It's within close range. Close range. When you're close enough to see her face, the beauty distracts you.
Gaze weaponized. Indeed. Gaze is indeed weaponized. So go ahead and do your attack roll, but take--
Let's go, gaze! (laughs) So reduce via a d6. Via a d6, all right.
So first, I'll do the positive number and then I will subtract from that. Well, it's pretty good.
20 minus 6, 14 total. 14. Misses.
Oh, you bitch! (laughs) You lob it, and she does the full on Madeline Kahn
in "Young Frankenstein" and just goes-- Yes! And just ducks as it passes by.
So that does miss and go wide. Oh, I didn't read through my shit fast enough. I could have had a prayer die. I let it miss. Okay, okay.
Was that with hope or fear? Hope. So you get a hope. However, it does come back to me.
I do have one activation token. I know, this is the back and forth. No, no, no, back and forth. She is going to...
Hmm. Yeah, seeing what you're capable of as you bring your ax back, she looks at you and goes, "Oh please, be a sweetie,
why don't you?" And she's gonna go ahead and use her kiss of confusion against you. She like casts this subtle spell under her breath
as she looks towards you (imitates kiss whooshing) and blows a kiss in your direction. You need to make an instinct reaction roll for me.
An instinct, how do I do that? You just make an instinct roll, but it doesn't... I'll give you hope, hope and fear don't matter.
It's just the number. Right, right, right. Hope and fear don't matter. It's a crit. Ha ha!
Both 12s. That's a success! (cheers) 27 total. Dang.
Now mind you, this is a reaction roll, so you don't get hope or stress back, but you automatically succeed on that.
Your shit is busted! (screams) She screams, actually emotionally hurt by that,
like all the confidence just crumbles in an instant. Oh, no. Where is she?
She's right here. Oh, she moved. And she's gonna go running off stage. (screams) Oh, oh.
Wait, really? Should we run?
I'm gonna try and see if I can get a look on her. I'm gonna move towards the back of the stage and can I see where she is?
Step over that guy? Oh, yeah. From here, you can see where she is. Yeah, you kind of step over into this entrance to it
and you can see her charging off, trying to exit. Oh yeah, no, I'm just gonna pull around that other side.
I just need visual because I'm gonna use my grappler. Okay. So I can back up a bit. I want to get her back on stage.
I'm so sorry, dear, but they're demanding another curtain call. Encore, I say!
And I fire with dramatic flares. That is a dramatic flare. So spend a hope and-- He will over talk everything!
That's so good. (laughs) My favorite. Three. I don't know.
I love it. It's like an overwritten (indistinct). (laughs) I'm just going to finish winding up this toy.
When I put it down, just wait. (laughs)
Then you get to add your experience to that. Yeah, and I have no advantage, but that's okay.
There's no way to get myself-- Did you range on that close? It is close. Then you have disadvantage because of her beauty.
So you get to roll, make your roll, with your bonuses, and then reduce it via a d6. All right.
You can do it, Sir Dante! I hope so. (groans) This is, well.
(groans) It's 13. 13 unfortunately misses, it goes wide.
I do get my hope back. Sticks in, you do get your hope back. For this weird.
All right. You're doing great. Returning to her turn now since you failed the roll,
she's gonna spend that and turn back to you and be like,
"Well, maybe you are a discerning eye who appreciates woman of beauty." (smooches)
There's another kiss under her breath and she casts this incantation with her fingers. You see this glow of magical energy.
(blows) Blows it in your direction and need you to make an instinct reaction. Does she have nails? Does she have long ass nails?
Oh yeah, like big old awesome acrylics that are, like we'll say they have the rhinestones at the tip.
Yeah, yeah. Are they flares? Are they coffins? Yeah. Are they stilettos?
They're coffins? I'm rolling so badly. That's a six. That's a six. You find yourself, as you pull back the grappler,
she looks towards you, blows you this kiss, and for a second you feel awful for how you've attacked her.
And this aggression enters your mind for those that have turned you against such a beautiful creature.
You spin around and throw your grappler instead at Xarlo. (gasps) Need you to go ahead and make an attack roll
with your grappler.
That's, wow, best roll I've had all night. 14 with hope.
14 with hope. 14 with hope. What's your evasion? Well, um...
You can use this badge to reduce any... Oh, no it doesn't, so he gets me. Alright, so go ahead and roll.
Is Xarlo very close to me or too far or farther than that? I can't tell from here. Xarlo? Yeah.
Xarlo would be considered, yeah, very close. Like within, it's very close.
Could I use arcane deflection to protect Xarlo from my own ally?
You can, yeah. Yes. So as you throw the grappler out, arcing towards you,
you see it opening the bladed mouth that it is near direction. Suddenly, this arcane shield blasts up
and deflects it off to the side. Excuse. (laughs)
I'm gonna squeeze fucking every drop out. (laughs)
All right. Hey, Bunnie. I'm gonna use a stress to flip out a card. I'll spin the hope too. Is she connected to the (indistinct)
or is she just a bitch? I'm pretty sure she's just...
I don't know, you know, I don't know anything anymore, but she is for sure a bitch. (laughs)
But we could just try and get the fuck out of here. Yeah, yeah. If we don't, you know.
How about this? Yeah, I'm going to do hypnotic shimmer.
so I'm gonna take my fans and I kind of spin them around on my fingers.
And when I do, waves of glitter hit everything in close range.
So is that all the backup dancers? So all the backup dancers. And I do a spell casting roll.
And on a success, they're stunned. Okay. And then maybe we can get the fuck out of here.
Go for it. Okay, hang on. On a success, make a spell cast roll.
So that's plus four, our roll here. Can I add to show my-- It says a crit, it doesn't-- (laughs)
Alright, so you gain a hope and clear stress. Oh yes, that's right. Oh yes, that's right.
So as you-- That's right. As you craft this hypnotic shimmer, these energy kind of sparkles across the stage.
How do you describe your hypnotic shimmer? It's like technicolor waves of glitter.
So it's like RGB pulsing as it just fans out and just hits everybody.
And people get glitter in their eyes and they're like (groans). As the backup dancers get hit with it and as the pulse of it is (imitates pulse beating),
they all instinctively just start kind of dancing. They're almost like four cage dancers just on their own without a cage in the middle of the stage.
Yes, yeah. Everyone in the audience had been watching, like everyone kind of got up to run and then just kind of stayed to watch.
And as this happens, you watch as the Matron Adra kind of steps out of the front and goes like,
"And I'm so glad you all stayed for our magnificent, unexpected encore performance.
A fantastic display from both teams of their own physical aptitude and ability to make you believe in their conflict."
She turns back. "Get the fuck out of here right now." Yeah, so they're all stunned. They can't move or act.
So let's go. Great. All right, at this point-- Thank you. Mufana has scattered off into the hallways
of the event and is- We'll take the other side. Mm-hm, mm-hm, mm-hm, that sounds good.
All right. Thank you. (overlapping chattering)
That was a whole bunch of fun. Just a little bunch. With the conflict at an end, Mufana gone,
her compatriots locked on stage for the time being in a dancing trance. The rest of the audience is still on the throes of cheers
and conversations and debate about how unique and real that battle really felt.
Someone was talking about how, "Oh, I think I saw blood on many of them." And someone else was like, "Oh, I've seen how they do those squibs.
So it was really easy, it was too red. It wasn't real." They're just... No, that was fake. Yeah, it was like obviously scripted.
Yeah. But as you all kind of dart off into the stage, you can see Eden is like,
"That was a magnificent performance. I mean, that was incredible for all of you. Where were you going?"
You were really great too. I love your grinding. Oh, thanks. I can come by and give you a lesson some time if you want.
Sure. We have an engagement. Oh yeah, later. Of course, of course. Y'all have fun.
You continue down, and as the next door opens, you watch as Lamont de Cello kind of steps out with a crutch.
Goes like, "Oh my God, all of you were incredible out there. Like I was really sad I wasn't on stage,
but I am so relieved that I was taken off in respect to allowing you all shine.
What a performance." Hey, real quick, we gotta run. You know, we're really doing something else.
You're not staying for the after party? Well... No! No, no, no.
We're so busy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You know what, maybe later. We'll come back.
Well, it goes pretty late. (overlapping chattering) We'll see, we'll see.
Put a pin in it. We'll see how we do the rest of the night. I like (indistinct). This night has range.
(laughs) I'm just wondering, can you point me in the direction
of where I might find a foreman Clive and his professor?
Foreman Clive, he's come in here a couple of times. Doesn't he work down at the ravine, front mine yard there?
Is it Gold's Bottom? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think that's where he earns his coin. He's kind of a big shot
when it comes to the miners down there, I suppose. Easy to find the mine? I mean, it's been closed for a bit, but it's easy to find.
Point us in the right direction. I mean, you know where it is. And you do, like it's hard to miss. It's the largest mining operation in the ravine,
right beneath Low Vale. There are a number of side entrances, but there was one major mining,
like where the initial and largest entrance is. And there's a whole series of buildings
and an equipment yard that's locked down where the bulk of their work is.
And it's also where the seep where you both had met was not that far from, and where it seems
to have at least emanated from that space. Okay, you got any dirt on him? You know anything?
Not particularly. I know he's ticklish behind his elbow. Oh. All right, that's good to know.
Okay, I love you so much. Love you too. (smoothing) Have some champagne for me. God. Oh, I will.
(laughing) She goes back to address the audience. As you step by into the hallway,
as people are starting to head out into the main entryway where the bars are,
you hear the chatter and talking, you do see four figures dressed in the garb of the Croatona.
We're still... Yeah, except for Bunnie. All except for Bunnie. But they're in the process
of pushing through the crowd and are looking. Before we leave backstage,
those ball bearings, are they around anywhere that got swept up? Oh yeah, there was a handful of them
off the side of the stage and some of them that were kind of-- I'm just scoop 'em up and put 'em in my pants. Yeah, yeah, so you got few handfuls of ball bearings
that you managed to quickly grab and pocket. Heck, yeah. I open the fan and block my face as we get the fuck out of Dodge.
Okay, I'll say go ahead and make either an agility or a presence role on your end.
It's not a very difficult one and I'll give you advantage on it. Okay. To just get through without any sort of,
not being noticed even in the slightest. Are we moving through any doors? You are, you're pushing through,
like the now slightly growing crowd of people that are pushing into the main entryway
to the exit front doors. There are two main doors that leave the front of the establishment and the one that's closest to you is on the left hand side of the theater.
If I'm moving through a door, I might use Runic Lock to make sure-- You can do that. I'm gonna switch out get Stealth Expertise
in my vault right now so that I can-- I grip my pants. Do that. You got it. What? You could again? What?
Take another Hope. Double nines. Amazing. What the fuck? Hollywood Park. There's a casino right here too. I about to say, yeah.
All right, so clear another Stress, take another Hope. We'll be rich. All right.-- Wow.
So yeah, so you scoot through. A few people leave with you. The bulk of the crowd is still behind you
as you all step out into the cold, mid-evening air. It's now pushing closer to midnight,
especially with all the rambunctiousness around the performance for the night, you close the doors behind you and Kexon,
you go ahead and whoop around and you touch the side of the door which immediately flickers with a series of runes
that spiral out, set in and then fade and the door just stays closed. Nice. And you hear a voice
behind like, "That does it. Now go on the other way." And people start adjusting accordingly.
Like shopping at Ralphs late at night when they close one of the doors, that's annoying. Shopping cart's in front of me.
Yeah. The car's over there. But you guys are now out into the main streets
of Lulvale, pretty certain that at the time being you're not being tailed. Great. Let's head to the mine.
Let's do it, Gulch Bottom Mine. To the mines. Get to the bottom. To the bottoms. You all skitter out--
Let's get to the bottom of this gulch. (laughing) Weaving through the streets until you come to the outskirts.
A little ways off from the rope bridge that leads across the ravine into the main city, there is the cliff-side precipice
that then leads into a number of switchback walkways and staircases that descend down.
There are a couple of rope-based elevators that do descend on winches,
but it looks like they're closed up for the night. They aren't expecting a lot of foot traffic into the ravine during this late hour. Yeah. So you can descend down
the switchback staircases and eventually lead you deeper in. You can see there's little platforms along the way that contain supplies,
sacks of like a ground cement-type material,
as well as some simple mining tools that like they've been damaged and are waiting to be brought up for repair.
But eventually you come to the base of the gulch and down here you can see the deep, red-brown earth
and dirt mingles with the broken shale from the mining operation
and the beautiful red crystals that all glow throughout the bottom and interior of the space.
You can see that a lot of them have been mined and broken and pulled forth, but there are a number of them that are still left with enough distance
that they still give off their general glowing red light to make the space not completely swallowed in darkness.
So there has been some forethought to not fully mining everything that's around this
gulch bottom mine territory. Heading down and following the pathway
towards the main opening of the mine that you recall, you can see the numerous mine buildings throughout. There's about a dozen or so that are scattered across.
There are fences put up, there are signs, there are two figures patrolling the exterior,
but there's no work going on inside. It is just dark within that ground
and all the bits of machinery, all the mine carts, everything is, and you recall it kind of working around the clock,
like they had shifts moving so that they were always going in and that bustle was part of the allure of the success.
It represented the progress and prosperity of Lulvale, and seeing it close the first time
when you first met was disconcerting. Now we're turning to this quite some time later
and seeing it still dark. Kind of feels sad.
But as you begin to approach as a team, the first patrolling figure looks over and approaches
and it's not like a heavily-armored guard. This looks like an Orcish fellow with a leather tunic.
It looks like he has a bandelier of daggers and a chain put to the side. Doesn't look like he's aggressive.
He just looks like he's a little rough and tumble, but has a smile as he comes up to approach you. He has this kind of flop of brown hair
that looks like Leon Kennedy. (laughing) Two wings. Such a visual.
Do we all still look like beautiful women, or is that past? Oh, has it been over an hour since?
Roll a d20 for me. (laughing) On a nine or lower-- Don't take this away from Laura.
It drops as soon as you approach. Awesome. Nine or lower, come on. 19, baby. Hell, yeah.
So it's still going. You're like German Dominature in his club look.
(laughing) Evening, ladies. It's polo from AR. Can I help you? You've wandered a bit far from the night's festivities
in this hour. You been out drinking? Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Do you want a little nipper? Looks over his shoulder.
I mean, if you're offering. I just so happen to have a flask, I do. And I do because I have, as a Wanderborne, my nomadic pack,
I add once per session you can spend a Hope to reach into the rear pack
and pull out a common item that's useful to the situation. Oh, that's great. Oh, that's cool.
Hell, yeah. Right, so. That's very cool. One Hope, and I pull out a little bit of booze and I share it with these gentlemen.
Takes a sip. Oh, it's like a slightly smoky port, it's delicious.
(laughing) Great, smoky port, yeah.
It's like I haven't had a sip of something like this since I was 19.
Drinking ages are a little younger here in Lulvale. (laughing) Comes all the way from the Emerald Grove, actually.
That's rare. That's-- That's a rare import. Oh, appreciate that. Thank you, lass.
Give him a wink. Do you have anywhere around here that could give us a little privacy?
What are you looking to do? I don't know.
Can we get into the mines? Well, you don't wanna get into the mines, little miss,
it's real dangerous in there. What do you mean? It's just a mine. I think she's suggesting we just wanna get out of the open.
Oh. (laughing) I mean, there's...
Make a presence roll for me. Oh, god. I'm gonna give you advantage. Because of the booze that you gave,
all presence rolls against him are pretty much at an advantage during this encounter. Great. I'm gonna add my Fear from before, okay, here we go.
Oh. Oh. Dang. Well, that was really good.
28 with Hope. Whoo. Whoo. Take that hope. Okay.
Yeah, we can talk. There's a couple of sheds that have been in disuse, just kind of storage space
if you want to get into a place not quite so out in the elements. Just give me about 20 seconds.
And he looks at the other patrolman, kind of goes around the corner, he's like, "Yeah, right, come on in." He pulls out his key ring
and kind of unlocks the outer gate, kind of leads you all into the inside of the...
(laughing) Wow, (indistinct). Inside the mine perimeter wall, perimeter fence--
Being hot is awesome. We call it pretty privilege. (laughing)
It is. Isn't it? You don't have to tell me. (laughing)
Turns around. Oh, you're all? We work as a team.
We're all dancers.
All right. And he goes off towards the shed and he's adjusting his collar a bit
and unbuttons the top of the thing a little bit and goes to the door and unlocks and turns around, so anyway.
(laughing) (clapping)
You know, it's a hard gig down here in this town of Lulvale. It's a little quiet, it's a little lonely,
so it's nice to have a little bit of chatter. In that pose, I hit him with time lock.
Which part of him? Oh yeah, oh, it's not the person. His little bracelet. Does he have a bracelet on?
Does he have a bracelet, gloves. Oh yeah, he's got probably some metal bracers on. Yeah, he's posted up on the wall and I'll lock something up there, just like...
So what do you, what's... What's going on? I'm asking you, do you wanna get inside? Yeah. Yeah.
I just start walking off. Great, quick, head on in.
(grunting) Lead the way.
I follow Kexon. Wait, what, where are you going?
We're supposed to get in-- Oh, real quick is there like a foreman's quarters? (grunting) Foreman's over there.
He's gonna start again. Okay, great. Great. He's gonna try and pull free from your, go ahead and roll your spell cast.
21, 22, 22 with Fear. With Fear, all right.
You release, or you concentrate on the spell. I rolled a natural 20. Whoa!
And so as you concentrate, he goes... (grunting) What happened? I don't know.
I must have put my hand on something sticky. That sequence catches you off guard and as he goes, "All right, well, wherever you're going,
well, guess if you don't wanna go in there, I'll find another one." He continues along with you and you're like, oh, shit, you take a Stress.
Oh, so good though. You rolled so high.
It's worth it. Takes his bracer off. He's like, "I gotta get this thing off, just do it." Are we trying to find the foreman
or are we just trying to get into the mine? Well, 'cause this, okay, above table talk.
Above table talk. Above table talk. It was the wealthy baron of the mining operations with the red crystal mines.
Well, it was a wealthy baron that wanted, that shut down these mines for the Croatona Family.
And Croatona Family said that this mine shut down after a couple weeks of him taking the deal,
so there's probably seep happening in these mines. In this mine, yeah. So if we just go on in,
'cause they're saying it's dangerous. There's something shitty that's in the mine, so if we just go to the mine, we're gonna find the source. We can locate the seep.
The seep. Right? So yeah, we don't need-- We need to talk to anyone? Wall of flame. (imitating exploding flames)
(laughing) Let's not get in. All right, ladies... (screaming) (laughing)
Let's go. How about-- Speller. You go in there and you just get ready for us
'cause we've got a show for you to take it all off and then we are gonna come in.
Just tell us when you're ready. I'm not even having a conversation here. It's extremely forward.
I don't normally do this kind of thing. This is-- Lucky day. Ah, listen, make a presence roll for me with advantage.
Oh, god. (laughing) Are there any other, do we see anyone patrolling
that has eyes on us? There was another person patrolling the exterior that hasn't put eyes on you yet. He's just finishing his rotation on the other side
and is probably coming back shortly. I gotcha. 22 with Fear. 22 with Fear, all right.
I'll take the Fear. Ha ha, thank you, you're the best. To think I remembered. So he kind of goes...
Under his breath he's like, "I never thought it would happen to me." (laughing)
Yeah, yeah, all right, let me-- Boy confession. Yeah. He'll never know. Ladies, yeah, just a moment.
Let me go set the mood. It's not very romantic in there, so just give me a couple minutes to clean up.
He goes on a quick trek back to the room and opens the door and closes it behind him carefully. (chuckling)
You immediately hear-- Yes. Door locks in with time lock. You hear like rummaging inside
and like moving things around as he's like... (humming) I'll Runic Lock instead of time lock
'cause that's harder to open. Yes. (laughing) You got it. Runic Lock harder. And locks in.
And then we just go. All right. (laughing) All right. I was ready to seduce him.
Oh, well. (laughing) I have experienced called Look Ma, No Hands.
(laughing) I did finish last encounter with two actions.
Before I did that was convert them into, here just so I have that. Okay. Oh. That's what you do with leftover action experience.
Transfer (indistinct). All right, so,
you all begin to approach the exterior of the mines proper as you step through your footfalls, finding the crunchy bits of loose shale and pebbles
and stone work, the occasionally skittering and scattering of dust skinks catch your eye. You know these dust skinks
to be these semi-translucent lizard, little gecko spirits that flits through
some of the internal rock areas of these mountains and they kind of skitter off in a bit and turn back and look at you
with these bright, glowing turquoise eyes before they go... Ooh, I like them. It's beautiful and they light space around them slightly.
Cool. You eventually step into the dark interior of the mines
and there is no light, it is pitch black. I'm gonna activate a Phantom Retreat right here.
All right. I can also-- Beginning of the mine. Cast Prestidigitation to illuminate a room,
which I assume is just a small area around us. So describe to me how your light operates.
The shell on my back opens up for the wings that are underneath and they start to (imitating wings vibrating) and they kind of like glow bug.
Oh, cool. It's a splash of light. That's so cute. What color's the light?
It's slightly yellowish-green. All right, the whole room around Kexon glows around,
and stepping in, you can see-- Staring at your ass as we walk. (laughing) (imitating strutting)
(laughing) (imitating smashing) Right then it drops. Then it drops. (laughing)
That was great. (laughing) Ah, we're normal again.
Damn. That's so sad. But here, the very massive entrance
to this well-mined cavern, you can see all the braces that are set up inside as well as the numerous abandoned mine carts
that have varying degrees of separate loosely gentle ore veins or chunks of crystal,
but much like how you saw a little bit as you were stepping in, now you can see where the red crystal does glow
within the faintest bit of glows. Most of it's gone, so there's very little interior light to here.
And some of them, as you begin to walk by and the light around Kexon begins to operate, there are crystals present in this room,
but they do not glow. Instead the normal kind of pinkish-red color
of the crystal seems to be more of a faded gray with almost like a darker interior to it.
So say it. It's so seepies. It's so seepies. It's so seepies.
It's so seepies. (laughing) I feel so sleepies. (laughing)
I'm going to just vibe. Vibe is ominous. Can I kick out the wings and I'll fly up a little bit.
So the light starts to spread a little bit, but it also helps me kind of see, Yeah, the dust kind of cascades out on all sides.
A bit of wind and picking up. It lights the space and you can see the chains that are connected to help kind of both hold
and shift large pieces of machinery that sit off to the sides. There are multiple tunners.
"There are multiple tunners." Multiple tunnels that begin to divide and snake off in different directions.
And as the sound of your flight kind of picks up, you also notice more of the dust skinks kind of
skittering out of the different shadowed corners and either finding somewhere to hide or exiting the cavern entirely.
But there are four different paths you can take. Is it like a fork in front of him like A, B, C, D?
You see one fork and then that fork divides into three different paths. So it's one large one here, large one here,
and that large one scatters off. Coming up to that first fork, can I use Reveal? And if anything is hidden within close range,
his roll would succeed against it and is no longer hidden. Sure. That's 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 with hope.
With hope. All right, so you take a hope, you cast Reveal.
Nothing hidden is revealed within range to you.
Is there an area, one of the tunnels that looks darker and more ominous than the other ones?
They all look fairly dark and ominous. Go ahead and make an instinct roll for me.
Ow, that was a sharp dice. (chuckling) They're your dice. I know.
11, 12, 13, 14. 14. 14 with fear. With fear, all right.
The air inside the cavern itself,
the temperature seems to drop almost suddenly. It catches you all off guard
as you feel the chills kind of run up your spine and so take a fear.
You do pick up a bit of a scent though. It's like a combination of wet iron and rot
and you, looking at the two different directions, there's the large singular tunnel that goes
and the one that divides multiple times. It seems stronger in the singular tunnel to the left.
We should go that way. Yeah, go towards the stink. Go towards the stinkies. Okay, fine.
Stinky seepies.
Continuing down this path for a few more moments. You come to an area that looks like it was a rest spot.
There are a handful of tables and chairs and looks to be a place for miners that were finished in one area or taking a break.
The tunnel kind of opens a bit and allows them place to sit and rest, drink water, prepare.
The table is shattered. You can see the portions of the well-manicured
and braced wall have taken some damage and it's cracking, part of it has collapsed.
There's signs of violence or struggle. And you see a body of what looks to be
a very well-armed figure that is currently half crushed under stone.
Oh, the foreman? No. Can we see it? Yeah, you go in and inspect.
You have no idea if it's a foreman or not, but the figure looks like it was... It doesn't like any of the guards who are watching the mine
and this individual is fairly well-armed for being a miner.
You kind of get a little close to it, and the body itself is quite decomposed.
The drier air in here, in spite of the smell, it's kind of mummified a bit,
so the skin's pull tight against the skull. You can see the eyes are now gone
and the kind of vacant sockets are there. The features look like it might have been a firbolg.
You can kind of make out elements of the now leathered ears that hang down,
but a very, very fine armor, as well as what looks to be a estranged...
It's like a vial, but it's mostly leather with a glass cap
with a little metal ring at the top that holds it in. We should definitely take that. But I'm going to reach forward and I'm going to touch his cheek
and I'm going to do a death connection. Ooh, what? Which is something
that I can do as a fungril. What? Cool. So I'm going to take a stress so I can extract one memory
related to a specific event. So I'm going to try to see what it was that killed him.
All right, as you concentrate on this, this withered firbolg, you recall the final moments
and your vision pulls into the same darkened interior,
but torch in front. You see a vision of three other miners walking scared,
kind of behind this figure. You see them now fully healthy. This big almost a mane of black hair
that kind of goes down the back as well as a long beard that comes to a point like a goatee almost.
You all right? I'm fine. A Van Dyke sort of chin beard. Nice armor spiked and kind of bladed in ways
that this figure you get the sense was probably hired to come and see what was happening.
And the miners are pointing and they traverse further into the cavern. You can see where the crystals are no longer
any sign of red coloration, but they're all just these gray kind of lifeless crystals that emerge from the parts of the mine
that were still being pushed into. There is a heavy roar and multiple roars.
The miners go fleeing and running. The figure looks up and you see this pale bluish glow,
not unlike the dust skinks that were scattering through, but larger, as multiple heads emerge from the shadow
biting in his direction and he sees this, turns and runs, and as he runs, another snaps past
and he dodges out of the way. Another one he spins and tries to strike it with a blade,
it misses wide, he carves into another and manages to cleave one of its heads off.
And he feels a little more confident as he watches the head regrow itself. Oh shit. Oh.
At which point he turns to run as the wall next to him cracks and crumbles into darkness.
Oh shit, you guys, it's this giant creature that can regrow its heads.
Heads? Heads? Yeah, there's multiple heads and it glows blue.
Was it cute? It looks scary. I'm going to take that vial around its neck.
(laughing) It's not too late to go to the casino. I actually think it genuinely is too late
to go to the casino, I think ever at this point. Aren't they open 24/7? They mess with a lighting so you can never tell--
Probably already sketched us and put us on the walls. Yeah I was going to say, we're probably blacklisted. We'll say the armor is actually quite nice as well.
Oh, ooh, he's got really fancy armor on. Does anybody want it? I would be very curious about such a thing. Let's get him naked.
(laughing) In a tactful way. Loot that body. Loot that body. Loot that body.
(laughing) It's just lying there, right? It's just lying there.
So it takes a little bit to rob this crushed corpse. But you do pull a usable set of spiked armor plating.
Spiked armor? Spiked armor. Who wears armor plating? I mean, I can. Not I.
What does it do? Do you, Kexon? There you go, turtle, become Shredder.
Let's see. (gasping) Wow. (laughing)
Base armor's plus six. Me and I am one. (laughing) Do it, do it.
Do it! Get naked! I suppose it just changes. Yay, naked Sir Dante. Yay, naked Sir Dante.
Yeah, I just lose a point of evasion but my base armor score is nuts. That's great, I will take it.
"Yeah, babies." (laughing)
All right. "Do I?" (laughing) What a conundrum. When Shredder became the turtle.
(laughing) We am become Shredder. (laughing) You either die a turtle
or live long enough to become the Shredder. (laughing)
I'm trying to do math, you asshole. Yeah, I put this thing on
and I try and get it so that the cape does not catch on the spikes.
It looks really good. Looks great. Yeah. I like it. This will work, I like it. Yeah, yeah, it's a good look.
It smells awful. I can't tell. Great. Have you ever smelled a turtle before?
(chuckling) (sighing) (chuckling)
Oh wow, yeah, I was waiting for that. (laughing) The best.
Okay, do we press forward? After waiting for Sir Dante to finish donning his new stinky armor.
Sir Dante, yeah, there we are. Eventually-- How's people's HP by the way, does anyone need healing? No problem. I mean...
I mean, now's the time. If anyone needs a little zhuzhing, I can help someone. I have a lot of stress.
I can help with that as well. With one person, it could be you. But I already took your ability.
But why not you again? Bunnie took a lot of hits before. Whoever's most in need. Who's got more than two stress marks?
How much stress you got there? I got five stress. Let's clear the stress. Yeah, clear some of that stress.
So because I have a specialization as a divine wielder, I can a second time use Sparing Touch
and now we can clear you a two stress. Now you can. And that's the end of my Sparing Touch for the day.
You got it. And before we go in. Thank you. I will, as he's clearing stress,
Bunnie's just like, let's just do a little group meditation and I do a little (humming).
And me and close allies heal one hit point.
So if you were down one, just heal one. Amazing! Great.
All right, who's leading the step forward into the narrowing caverns before you?
Oh. All right. Nothing like a glowing target in the dark.
Right. (laughing) Kexon it's you. That's why Batman has Robin. We think there's a big lizard down here,
we're pretty sure? Yeah, with multiple heads. That grow back. I'm going to eat this necklace is what I'm going to do.
Okay. Fuck yeah you are. Pop this jolly rancher in my mouth. 'cause it says you consume it and then later I regurgitate it.
So Xarlo grows eight feet tall and is yolked out.
We'll use this as your mini for now. Yeah! (cheering) Let's go, Donkey Kong.
(laughing) (singing)
Yeah, you know that shit. All right, pushing forward the tunnel narrows for a bit.
You can see other side tunnels that are partially collapsed and others that wander off deep into the mine. But the smell, the strong smell
just gets stronger and stronger. Leading you further in, the crystals themselves dull gray ashen,
almost have this sorrowful feeling and energy to them.
And it gets progressively colder and colder. Stepping through the chamber opens up a bit
and you can see other tunnels that kind of move off different places, but the rocks themselves have fallen as well.
And that's when the smell in here is extremely acrid. You glance through and there are
all these different clusters of ashen crystals kind of scattered throughout the room. And there is one in the far back as your light comes across
that you can see within the crystal, this kind of black mass that seems to be within it,
kind of pulsing and moving, not unlike the seep abscess
that you had encountered in the emerald sky. You can see where the crystal is somewhat cracked.
The blackened tendrils almost like tentacles or veins that are emerging, just kind of slightly move
like weird feelers of an urchin in the ocean.
What do you do? Do we see any creatures around, any kind of glowing (hums)?
Make an instinct roll for me.
Okay, okay. 20 with fear. 20 with fear.
All right, as you all kind of enter and begin looking around the chamber,
you point out that abscess as you kind of glance to see any sign of a creature.
As you look up, you look to see something shift above.
And that blue globe begins to emanate as the slumbering entity becomes aware of your presence
and slams into the ground, separating you into two separate groups
in the center of the chamber. Oh no! As you see it kind of slams onto the floor. It's heavy, multi-ton weight hitting the ground.
The multiple long necks emerge as what looks to be some sort of heavily mutated dust skink
that has these long heads. Four in total that all kind of re-wrap. (screeching)
Let me go ahead and get the other map. (cheering)
Did I tell you guys when I saw the memory that it regrew its heads? Yes. I told you guys. Okay, okay, okay. Yeah, it regrew its heads.
Okay, okay, okay, okay. While he gets the map. Bunnie is going to crack her fans.
Aw shit. Be like, just like Sir Dante said, it's time for an encore
and I'm going to give a rally die. I did say that, didn't I? You did say that, but you said it in a much longer way.
(chuckling) Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! (yelling) Chill, Matt, chill! It's so much bigger than I thought it was.
What the hell, that's beautiful. So that's where that is. That is crazy. I like the red lights.
So everyone gets a d6. Oh oh, for what? I'm rallying everybody.
For anything? Yes, this is your rally die that you can use for anything.
And anyone who takes a rally die can also choose to either gain a hope or clear a stress.
Ooh. Oh. Amazing. Right now or after you use it? When you receive the rally die,
when you receive it, so now. And we still get the dice? 100%. Hundo percento. 100%.
100%, so you get a d6. The rally dice, you can use this
by adding it to an action roll, a reaction roll, a damage roll. Fuck yes. Or clearing stress.
Oh! What? What? We're level six, it's a d8! (cheering)
It increases to a d8 when you reach level five. Okay. Even better. So you get a d8 that you can use whenever you want.
So... I don't have a d8. As it slams into the ground scattering you to different sides.
As a part of the fear reaction there, I'm going to go ahead and spend a fear
to immediately get two things there to activate the...
Oh shit. Ruh-Roh. The creature in question, as of yet unnamed,
unidentified, multi-headed fuck face. Boy-oh-boy-oh-boy.
As the seep hydra. By the way, this is the crystal that you saw the abscess kind of sitting within.
The seep hydra is going to go ahead and activate... Well first it has its ability called relentless,
which means it can activate an X number of times,
which X is the number of heads the hydra has. We can activate four times this turn.
So that being the case, I activated it twice there. So it makes two attacks against,
let's see, in a close range. It's going to go ahead and first it's going to strike you, Oppy.
Okay. And then it's going to go ahead and strike at you, Xarlo. All right, you're actually this dude.
Yeah. So it's going to be against Oppy and Xarlo.
Both get a strike from the seep hydra.
That's going to be 13 against you, Xarlo. 13 will hit, I will...
So I take major damage, yeah, I take major damage. Well, no 13 is to hit. Wait, no, no, no, it's just to hit. To hit, all right.
Damage is going to be 12 points of physical damage. 12? Oh, it's right on my major damage.
Yeah, I take two, I'm going to go to armor. All right, so reducing that down?
Yeah. All right. Fuckin' up me armor. And then Oppy? That's gonna be a 12 to hit. Did you...
That hits. All right. Take me to minor or take it out completely? It was a major damage, You take 12 points
so two marks, of physical damage. Okay, so-- And I did it with my armor, not my hit points. I will do that.
All right. Just use your... Ugh. No, but did it bring your-- Your armor reduces. The damage, so you would still take a minor hit point.
Oh, oh, okay, so- But you would just go down one? So if I, how's it work? So if you have a--
So, if you spend an armor-- Yes. You reduce the damage by your armor score. Oh, so I spend one? Yeah.
And what's-- Taking it down to 11. So I take one hit by-- Yes. Thank you, everybody. Yeah. But your armor is a one or what's your armor?
What's your armor score? Nine. So that would take it from a 12 down to a-- To a three.
To a three. To a three? Yeah. You reduce it by the armor score. I still take one-- Yeah, you still take one. You still take a hit point.
But just that that's gonna get minus. Oh, minus nine, minus nine. Yes, yes, yes. Correct, yeah. Minus nine, minus nine. Yeah. Yeah, I got it. He's got some good armor.
Yeah. That's it. Yeah, (indistinct) make the man wear some armor. I know. All right, it's gonna go ahead
and spend a Secondary Fear to get two of these back. Sheesh! And only use two of its heads, right? Instead of all four? Correct.
Okay. Now it's gonna take the other two-- And then spend the other two to use Terrifying Chorus. Oh, Chorus! All the heads at once.
(exclaiming) (roaring) Gonna scream, the whole room quakes. Yeah!
You all cover your ears and fall to your knees. No! All of you lose two Hope. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! No!
What? How dare... Can I, is this? (humming) Is this a spell or magical effect that is taking place?
No. (exclaiming) It's just a scream! Damn it! It's just a yell. It's just a really shitty song.
But that's gonna finish my go. Who goes first? Oh! Oh boy. Let's test this fuckin' bastard out.
We're gonna get it on like Donkey Kong. I'm just gonna take a swipe at it to see how much I can hurt it.
So, with my noose-- You movin' to melee? Do you wanna move anywhere? Uh... Nah, that seems dangerous for the moment
so I'm gonna stay back and I'm gonna chuck-- Okay, you can throw, yeah. My tiny little ax. (imitates ax whooshing)
But I get a plus 10 for damage if I hit, that's if I hit. A d10, yeah.
Yeah. So, but there's no advantage or anything for the attack roll. It's just the attack roll. Interesting.
That is total balls. So, five...
And you don't-- Okay. Do we want to do anything for this? We can spin it here. I don't think I do. I think I'm just gonna take the loss. I don't.
You do it. You start. Okay. So-- My tiny ax is so small that I'm not used to throwin' it and it goes between two heads. Yeah, it's so small.
Little help. All right, so that finishes your go. Yeah. That brings it to me because of the failed roll.
The hydra is now going to-- Oh, you get a Fear 'cause you rolled a Fear. Oh that's right,
you rolled a Fear. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. I'll take that. I will spend one of those Fear to convert
that into two action tokens, Oh god. and then I will activate three hydra heads where it stands. Damn!
Yikes. So, all of a sudden it's gonna go ahead and just stand there in the center. It's primed in its position 'cause it can reach all of you.
It's gonna go ahead Oh no. And (imitates striking) just take three quick strikes in a row. That's gonna bring us to (vocalizing),
it's not to worry about you, it's gonna go, actually it's gonna go all three right here. You're just gonna (imitates whooshing),
that's gonna be against you, Sir Dante. Mm hm. That's gonna be a 15 to hit. That hits? You take 14 points of physical damage.
14. I'm going to spend an armor and bring that down...
Bring that down, right? To a six and just take the 1 HP. I'm also, I do have a thing.
I've a thing called retaliation. So, I'm going to mark a stress and I am in,
am I in melee with him or I'm not in-- You are not. Oh, nevermind, I'm not doing that. Melee, melee, melee.
It's you, Bunnie. Shit, that's gonna be a seven. Miss? (imitates whooshing)
You managed a dodge on the way. It is not quite quick enough to catch you on your feet. Once again. And then it goes to you again, Oppy.
That's gonna be a 15 to hit. That hits. You take 20 points physical damage.
Oo! All right. All right, I'm gonna use some armors. Do it.
Some armor slots. So, that was 20 you said? Yes. So...
Well, let's see. 18, 16, 14. ♪ So go 15 ♪
♪ Enjoy your enormous loss ♪ You'd have to use all of your armor in order to get...
So, maybe just take it. (laughing) All right, nevermind. I'm just gonna take it. All right, go for it. Because that would be all-- All right, that finishes the GM's move.
Who's up? All right, first I'm going to... You know, as I crack my fans it creates a little rhythm One, two.
that you hear and it starts bouncin' off the cave wall and it's like (scatting).
And I play an epic song, and I make it vulnerable. Okay.
Sick. I know. Whatever you wanna do. I say this marks it as vulnerable here.
You stay where you are? Yeah, I'm gonna do a little... Well, you pitch it. Are you ready, Bunnie? (gasps)
Yes, I stay ready. So, here we go. I am going to spend three Hope. It is an action to do that or just a goulet? It's a (vocalizing).
Nope. Describe (speaking gibberish). It is an action. I use an action. Use an action, all right. So do your thing. Yes.
Got it. Thank you for that. So, I'm spending three Hope so that we can do a tag team attack. Go for it. Okay. So I'm gonna take out my whip
and I'm gonna crack it and start almost like a wing leader I'm gonna be like (imitates whip cracking), over here you little beasty. Hell yeah.
And then I crack it to get attention and I'm kind of almost like shielding Dante until he's ready.
You got it. I'm going to run around the side as it kind of comes in and-- Trying to bait it this way. And take a look at you-- Over here?
No, no. We were hoping it was baiting towards her so I'm gonna jump over the head and try and just take a nice big
plummeting attack Towards you? around its neck, just like around her so I end up on the other side of that group. Over here? Yes.
You got it. All right. It's not worth throwing dramatic fire at that. Perfect, all right. So, both of you can go ahead and make your rolls.
Yeah, as I distract it and it swings, as soon as he goes, then I'm gonna come down with the fan.
Got it. So, go ahead and roll, both of you. This is, okay, I get a couple things outta this. I use a d20 for my Hope die.
You do. Which is cool. And then, yeah. And then I also have that...
I'm gonna have this... Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
Okay. 19.
24 for me. With? Hope. Okay. 24, 20...
I'm at 26 with Fear so we might do 26 with Hope. Might be the better way to go. Mm hm. I'm good with that. All right, 24 with Hope.
That a success? You both take a Hope on that and go ahead and roll your damage and add it together.
Yes. Oh, all right. (hooting) Oh, garden. Okay.
♪ Meet me in the garden ♪ ♪ Oh, garden ♪ (hooting) My god. (laughing)
Okay. Three. Do I get anything else more than this? Okay (vocalizing).
(laughing) 12 damage for me. 12 plus?
10, nine. 19, 21, 22, 23.
Big whammy. 25. No. 25, so 37 points of damage. Hell yes. That is exactly at severe threshold.
Woo! Yay! So, it takes three. 37? 37? 37. 37 isn't severe? Yeah. Damn!
So, it takes three hit points Shoot! are marked on that hit. Okay, that's great. Good job, guys. And it was vulnerable. And you cut
one of its heads off. Oh, yes! You cut it and one of the four heads (vocalizing) hits the ground
like (growls) rolling. Yeah! The kind of glowing blue energy around. Does anyone have fire? Does anyone have fire?
Y'all, burn it before it goes back. All right, here's my question. Were both those physical attacks, right?
Yes. Okay, cool. I'm also going to... Since I did actually, I did the hop over the neck,
came down the sword as the thank him through, if I actually have an interesting attack,
I do actually get to mark them a stress if I'm willing to take a stress.
Mark a stress on them? Yep. All right, yeah, go for it. So, they take a stress. They take a stress indeed.
Mm hm. Imagine. All righty. What does vulnerable mean when the creature's vulnerable again? It means it's, yeah, add a d6 to your attack rolls.
To everybody gets it? We all add a d6 when an attack rolls? Yeah, when a target is vulnerable, Right. all attacks against it have a-- An additional d6.
That's good to know. I did not do that. And I'm going to step back Storm the system. into Xarlo's shadow. All righty.
And then bamf out behind the beasty. So I'm technically hidden as I bamf out.
Over here? Yeah, that's a stress point.
And-- The shadow would be here. Based on where the light Xarlo's giving off-- Sure, and then I'll run for it.
I'm technically hidden Yep. so I'm gonna run for it and attack it with advantage. Go for it. Right?
When I was hidden I attack with advantage. Yes. Yep, so go ahead and roll your attack and add a d6.
And then that is plus three for proficiency? Mm hm. Okay. Or plus three for whatever attribute you're adding to it.
One of your... Proficiency's the damage that you do. Oh, oh, oh. So that would be instinct, yeah.
So, three. Okay. Yeah. And then... Are you going to add a damage too?
Can I add anything else to this? You got that, Bunnie, too? I know, I kinda wanna add the dice to the Bunnie
'cause I'm afraid to, I'm gonna miss him. Oh, and I'm gonna use a Hope.
Okay. To add to damage. Oh, for-- To that. Yeah. Yeah, okay. So-- Would you add
a +6 because he's vulnerable? Or d6, she did. Yeah, that's for damage. Okay.
I haven't done the damage. No, no. No, no, no, it's just a hit. Oh (chuckles). Oh, then I didn't need to use this eight Oh, dang.
if I had known that. I did the same thing. Just take one of 'em out.
Why did you roll on eight? Take the six and the eight out. Take the eight out and then I'll add another six. Sure. Okay. Yeah, okay. Yeah.
Okay, so that's... 21, 22, 23, 24. Okay,
so you added a d6 to it already? Yeah, but that's from a sneak attack. Sneak attack. You add the d6 to damage.
But I roll with advantage Right. when I come outta sneak attack. Okay, yeah. Sorry.
So, you have an advantage on that which means the advantage that you already had wouldn't have added an extra d6. You just have advantage. You can't have advantage multiple times. Oh, got it.
So, yeah. So just add the six. Okay. Okay, so-- Yeah. Sorry, I was like trying to figure out the dice here. That's okay, that's okay. It's all good.
21, 27, 28, 29, 30. Oh, yeah, you hit. With Hope. You hit so hard with Hope.
Yay. So hard. The weird dusk ink hydra creature after
its first head gets cut off, it kind of recoils. The neck is like writhing in the air and you (imitates air whooshing) appear,
rush around the corner from the shadow, and just... What's your weapon? I have a corner staff.
A corner staff. Boom! (laughs) And you just crack it but you crack it right where one of its discs was kind of herniated Oo, yeah!
from the mutation, Oo! and it just goes (imitates bone snapping). Ah! Okay, so-- Go ahead roll damage. And you add the d6 here for sneak attack.
So magic-- So, that's where I add my d6 and I did a Hope so I get another d6. Correct. And then I can add Bunnie's d8 this time.
Yep. Okay, and then I do three d10. Oo! Nice. Where the d10?
(humming) ♪ Wait, I can't find it ♪ It's fine, I'll just add another one. Okay.
And then my proficiency thingies.
Oh, that's shit! (laughs) Nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17.
Okay. 17.
18, 19. 27. 27 points damage? That is a major wound. It takes two more hit points.
Yes. Okay, okay, okay, okay. Okay, okay. You cut off a secondary head. Or more like you hit it in the back in a way.
Yeah, I'm trying to hit it in the back. Yeah. That's why I bamfed behind 'cause I don't want Yeah. it to take off ahead. Well-- I was trying
to hit its spine. Right. You hit the spine and as it rears back-- That pops off. (laughs)
As it react-- "That pops off." I was gonna say as the reaction when-- What if I hit it so hard its bosoms come flyin' out. (laughs)
As a reaction after that first head was cut off, it rears back and then gives Sir Dante an opening who reaction cuts off a secondary head.
Nice. Amazing. Oh, nice. Amazing. That's two less attacks that it can make with its heads. Okay, great. I'm gonna jump in
with something I should've started with to help you out. Zone of protection. Oh.
I'm gonna add my ralley die for feck's sake. Six, five, 11, 12, 13, 14.
Okay, I just make it 16. Zone of protection on a success once per long rest you can designate a point within full range of ya underneath the skink's ass.
And a visible zone of protection for my allies within close range which is why I put it under the skink.
I place a d8 out and every time one of you's gets hit, you minus what's on the die
from the damage. Okay. So, the first person to partake gets eight minus, then the next person seven. How big is the zone?
It's close range, so shooting out to everyone centered on the skink.
So, that entire area there? All of us. Nice! Yeah. That's- Nice, nice. So, yeah. This range is gonna be a monster.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's great. Should've leveled with it. That's great. Cool. All righty. Can I kick up with my wings, and I'm gonna burn two stress to change out
a Book of Tyfar for the Book of Exada. Sure. Did you make a roll for that Xarlo,
or it just happens? I did make a roll for it. Right, thank you. Oh, and it's for the whole. Yep, there you go.
Take it home. So with the Book of Tyfar I'm gonna kick up using my wings and fly up towards
this thing with now two of its head chopped off? Yeah. And I'm gonna use a Wild Flame
to make a spell cast roll against up to three enemies in melee range of me.
Flame erupts from my hand dealing 2d6 magic damage in the stress any that I succeed against. Go for it. Okay.
Colorize those decks. Just in case it's like a hydra. He's well read. I know. He's read about monsters and stuff.
Okay, plus four. 16. So, 20 with Fear.
20 Fear, that hits. That definitely succeeds. Okay. No. And school of war-- Yeah. Now with my school of war specialization,
I deal 2d10 extra damage on an attack roll with Fear. Correct. Okay.
So, yeah. Oh, cool. Oh, great. He does more damage when he succeeds with Fear. Oh, nice. No, no damage when I'm scared.
Okay, so that's 14 extra damage on top of 2d6.
Oo. 14, 24. 24 points of damage plus four. 28 points of damage.
28 points of damage. To three different targets? Dang, all right.
To three different targets? So that's two-- It says against up to three enemies in melee range of you. Oh, does that count as multiple heads?
No, 'cause it's still one creature. Got ya. But you do burn off a third head.
Oh. Yes! So that third head kinda smolders and cracks away as the ashen kinda charcoaled head
drops off the stump as it pulls away kind of the blackened exterior of it, kinda still present. There's just the one snapping head now.
Got it. That finish your turn? Yes, it does. All right, that's brings it to me.
I'm gonna go ahead and activate, spend a Fear to use...
That was magic damage? Yes, spell cast roll. Okay. Yeah, 2d6 magic damage. Yeah.
So-- And he marks the stress. That's true. Okay, so...
And he marks stress, yeah. So, because that was magic damage, he's dazed.
Oh! And confused, bro. Oh! Hey! All right, all right, all right.
Let me see. Be a lot cooler if you did. I am gonna spend a Fear to remove the vulnerable condition. Shit. Ugh.
No longer vulnerable. Aw, damn. That is dazed. While dazed, cannot use its own regeneration ability.
Sweet. But it's now immune to magic damage until it's no longer dazed. Oh.
Immune to magic damage. Until it's no longer dazed. So, while it's dazed it's immune. I will activate a crystal seep abscess over here.
Ah, ah! Hey! It will use its action to use regeneration pulse. Ah! So it can't
regenerate itself. The pulse seep kinda (vocalizing) through. And through all the crystals that are ashen around also kind of flash black,
as it does the Hydra regains a hit point and heal, and regenerates a head. This little court side pimple!
Again, it's-- Okay, so that's good? That's good? Now the hydra's going to use...
Now that had two heads. I'm gonna take both of those to attack twice with the hydra.
With this it's gonna turn and both strikes are on you. Uh oh. Oh no. (vocalizing)
(indistinct) First attack is gonna be a 15 to hit. 15 hits. You take--
You can do it, I can't. We should split-- 25 points physical damage. Whoa! Minus eight because of zone of protection.
Right now-- I've got minus eight so 17? And I'll burn an armor to make that 11.
I won't burn an armor 'cause it's all the fuckin' same. Okay, so that's major damage. Burn it, okay. Wait, did you drop 'em down?
I did. Actually I'll burn two. And that'll get it to one. Yeah, how much-- All right.
And that is a natural 20. Damn! Woo! What happens with my zone of protection then?
Does it-- It still reduces the damage. All right, but the damage is gonna be maxed in a dice roll. But that's a hit? So, that's-- Ai, yi, yi!
Oi, yoi, yoi! I'm ready, my body's ready. Minus seven. Oh, he's makin' the face. Yeah, he's gonna do a--
I can't do that, I can't do that. Take 51 points of physical damage. (laughing) Minus seven. Right.
Seven, minus seven. Minus seven. 'Cause if it doubles then it's severe. Which is four hit points. 44, wait, 44, right?
Holy heck. What's your severe? 44, 26. So, it doesn't double it. Yeah, no, no. Barely.
Oh! That saved- 26 minus seven. Yeah. Jeez Louise. So that's- What do you mean 27 minus seven?
'Cause that zone of protection thing that he did. No, he knocked it down seven to four. Seven. From the four. 50--
51, right? Yeah. So 40-- Right. So, that'd be three hit points on to you.
44. Oo! No, 44 minus six, 12, 18.
Help, math! Whoa. Ouchies.
Help. Help! Help. 26. Oh, that makes it exactly three hit points, okay.
I'm going to burn those three. Okay. Okay. Cool, cool, cool, cool.
Cool, cool, cool. That finishes my GM turn. I'm going to burn my last armor actually to make it a major damage instead.
There you go. Now I'm out of armor. Okay. ♪ Fuck ♪ Shit, shit.
You're out of armor and you have three hit points. ♪ And the weekly top 40 ♪ I got three more hit points, I'm fine. Somebody maybe-- I'll fart.
Go over and attack that crystal or something. Yeah, use the magic. He's still dazed?
For the time being, yeah. So maybe magic people focus on the crystal. Actually at the end of his turn, sorry,
is actually when the hydra activates. Let me roll the dice real fast. 51 points, Matthew? No, that's an eight. That's totally fair.
No longer dazed. Ah. Whoa. But no longer immune to magic damage. Christ.
All right, so who wants to go now? Okay, yeah? Okay. You haven't gone yet? No. You're up. So I'm going to spend-- No.
I'm spending a stress to replenish my Unleash Chaos tokens. You got it. And
I am going to ♪ Make my way ♪ over to the crystal.
Over here? Yes.
I want to try to, yeah, let me try to get, well I don't know if I want to come close to the crystals. Whatever.
That's great, I'm going to stay right there. Matt, you can put me up in front of the mouth 'cause I was right up in his biz
on that little platform if you want to. Yeah, sure, so you fly up here? That's where I was, yeah. (flaps) Yeah, go for it.
And I am going to Unleash Chaos. Go for it. Yet again on the crystal, the seep. Roll an attack.
Yep, against the crystal seep abscess. Yes. Go ahead and roll and attack. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
Come on. Come on, come on, come on. Ooh. All right. Ooh. So-- Ooh.
13 with Hope. 13 with Hope, you take a Hope. Okay. That just misses.
Ah. (chuckles) Wait. You have your rally die. (caws) Wait. Your rally die. Wait, wait. Okay, wait.
That just misses? Right. Okay, but I'm going to use my rally die. Yeah, you got it.
It just needs one point, so it's an auto. It's plus seven, so-- So add plus seven on that? Yeah.
That definitely hits, go ahead and roll damage. Yeah, that's what the rally die's for. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, so can I use your d10 again? Yeah, go for it. Here you go. Okay, thank you.
It does say you can add it to the results of an action roll. So I think you can add it retroactively.
Generally it's like you roll and then you add it before I confirm whether or not it succeeds or not. But we're learning it here, so I'm being wibbly-wobbly. Right, before you confirm.
Yeah, so it's like "I'm going to spend it." Nice. And then I tell you. That's another eight, 17.
Nine. Oh, 17 plus nine, 26. 26. 26. Plus? 29. 29 points of damage.
That's a major wound to the crystal seep abscess. It takes two hit points. It's going to use its reaction to Protective Burrow.
Oh. Ooh. Wait, what? Oh, it's going under. It's going under. This crystal (shatters) crumbles into a nothing
and the abscess (squelches) vanishes within. Damn. All the other crystals around pulse with darkness.
Oh no. You still feel its presence. You get the sense it's in one of these crystals. It could be anywhere. Oh, sneaky sneakersons.
Interesting. Oh god. It's a sneaky little crystal. Sneaky little crystal. Sneaky little crystal.
But we don't immediately see it? To be forward with this. To be. Sneaky little bitch.
Whenever anybody breaks a crystal, roll a d6. On a four plus, it's in that crystal. That's where it rests? All right.
Okay. I'm going to jump in with a helping hand. I'm going to jump up by Kex and say
"Come here, ya wee feckin' chitinous bastard." And I'll do Healing Hands. (laughs)
Five. I don't roll high enough,
so it's not as good but you heal one hit point, one stress. I'll take it, I'll take both those. Okay, so you did not succeed on the?
It was with Hope. Yeah. But it wasn't high enough according to the rules to get,
if I had succeeded on the roll, he would've gotten two hit points and two stress. Totally. But it was low. So it was one hit point and one stress.
Okay, but because it's still a failed roll, it still comes to me. All right, all right. Only, if you switched it out from the vault.
That finishes your go. Right. On my activation here, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to activate the hydra.
I'm going to spend this Fear to do-- Sorry, question. Yes?
Because of the gem I ate, it says "Your Strength, Agility and Finesse rolls have advantage." Since my spellcasting modifier is Strength,
would that be at advantage, that roll? Because of this rule, your Strength?
It would be, yeah. Nah. (laughs) Nah.
Good try, good try. But spending that Fear off the activation, it can now regenerate since it's no longer dazed.
So it's going to heal two hit points. Dang. Ah man. So we got to break crystals.
And it regrows a third head. Ugh, fuck. Fuck. Okay. Just got to break
all the crystals. And wherever the crystal is, it's going to activate. It's going to use Regeneration Pulse to heal a hit point on the hydra. Shit.
What did he say about trying to find the new crystal? And it regrows its fourth head. Just hit crystals. Fuck. And then we roll a die. If we break a crystal, there's a chance we'll hit the seep thing.
It's like a slot machine. That finishes my activation, who's next? Well fuck this, I'm turning. Yeah. I'm turning, do you want to go?
No, I was going to just hit some crystals. I'm going to hit crystals. I'm going to do the same thing at the same time. We're going to run and hit crystals.
We'll run and hit crystals. Ah, I'm going to hit that one. All right. (clacks) So you're going to this one here? Sure, I'll run farther away.
How about the one right back? There? Sure. Okay, so you rush up there.
All right, who wants to roll for what first? I'll go.
Oh, it's close, it was close to another crit but it's not. Matty, would you put my monkey by the bug?
Here? Thanks, yeah. You got it. Four, so wait, that's-- Did you say "daddy?" Matty. 12, 14.
Zaddy. Zaddy. 15, 16? 16 hits. Hits, okay. My king put back. Go ahead and roll damage. 16 hits. And if you want to roll
for an attack as well-- Daddy. Since you guys are doing this at the same time. Come on.
16 with what though? With what? Oh, with
Fear. Got it, thank you. With Fear. I'll take that. I'm going to add my rally die.
So hold up on that actually. Actually. Just kidding. I'm adding my rally die. Okay.
Seven, 10, 15 damage. 15 damage. That is a minor wound, it takes a hit point.
Or actually no, sorry, this is to hit the crystal. Now roll a d6 to see if it's there.
So in a four up, it's there? Four up it's there, yeah. Come on. Four. Four. Wow.
(shatters) Well technically, the crystal is still there. Oh no, it shatters the crystal.
It takes the damage and it's going to use its reaction to (whoosh) disseminate into other crystals. So the seep takes the damage. It Protective Burrows again
but it does take another hit point. Okay, okay, okay. You did find it, you sent it back under the ground. Correct, you found it. So it's taking hit points. And did damage. Yeah.
So it is taking hit points every time we do it. So now maybe you're lucky. Correct. Yeah, after because the hydra gets to go now.
Now it comes to my go. Oh fuck. With the Fear I got from that. Done. I'm going to go ahead and spend that Fear
to get two more action tokens. I'm going to activate the hydra--
To run away. Three times to-- Run away. Do its attack with its heads. Run away, you bitch.
That's going to be-- (laughs) That was a surprise. It's going to be three attacks on you.
(screams) (laughs) Oh no! Help me, somebody! He's going for blood. Oh no.
We're good, we're good, we're good, we're good. He's trying to kill him. He tore through his armor, man. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He's the chewiest target. Oh no. All right, it's a natural one. Oh no, Xarlo. Hey. Natural one. We're still on our way there.
Yeah. All right, it's going to be-- Green pastures. 14 to hit?
It hits. (laughs) All right. Oh no. 14 to hit, what if I use a prayer die to minus four from it?
Does 10 hit? Down to 10. 10 misses. Done.
All right, so that's (angelic chants) two misses. Because I've got my
spellcasting trait to add to my evasion because of School of War. That's true. And then that's going to be another 12 to hit you.
12 is my evasion. So that does hit you. Okay. All right, so you take-- All right, one hit. 22 points of physical damage.
Woo. (laughs) Minus six. Minus six. Because of the Zone of Protection. Yep. Great.
So that brings it to a 16. Beautiful, I'll take it. Nice. That finishes my activation.
Who's up? I hit a crystal. All right, it's going to move over here a little bit. Shift around
in this space. I'm attacking a crystal. Go for it, roll for the attack.
Slick, that was awesome. And then I add my proficiency?
No. No. Because this is just for damage. I roll my instinct. Yeah. Three, plus three. So eight plus five.
Eight plus five is 13. Is 13 plus three is 16. 16 would hit the crystal.
Go ahead and roll a d6 for me. Six. Six, all right. Woo.
So that is striking the abscess. So go ahead and roll damage for that. Okay. 3d10. Nice.
Plus three and I'm going to add-- Yeah. These as well. Go for it.
That's one, two, three. Okay. Okay.
11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19. 19, that is going to be a minor wound on it.
It takes another hit point. The crystal is shattered and the abscess-- (squelch) Yeah. Submerges once more
and scatters somewhere to another crystal in the space. Okay, okay, okay. Could I please go before I get squished?
Uh-huh. Amazing. Getting rocked. Can I use my action to mark a stress?
That was with Hope, by the way. Thank you. Mark a stress and I'm going to create a temporary wall of magical flame
between two points within far range. Can I tuck it in the corner on these big crystals and run it right by,
yes, Xarlo straight into whatever the hell that thing is. So bisecting it, like under it?
How far do you want it? Just into the corner as much as possible but not getting into, yeah, that's great.
Right, so it's in this space here. I could take a peek. Yeah. Is there any way to do it so it's like this?
Oh, like this? Yeah. Yeah, hit those guys so we can hit these big boys down here? Yeah, sure. Take those out of the equation.
Spellcast. ♪ Da, da, da, da ♪ Nope, no spellcasting roll. It just takes 4d10 damage.
♪ Which is dumb 'cause I was hoping to roll some extra ♪ Do you roll for attack on the hydra for that? No, it says just use an action to mark a stress.
Create a temporary wall of magical flame. Oh great, and then? Anything passes through, it makes 4d10 magic damage. All right.
Which it hasn't moved through it but it's in it. So would this wait for now? 13, so that's 16. I'd say when it moves
or on its activation-- Great. I'll go ahead and take that. I'll hold those dice right there then. Okay great, that's it. Oh, and can I get the fuck out of there?
Yeah, if you want to. I know I'll take an attack of opportunity but it sucks. There's no attacks of opportunity in this system.
Oh. Cool. Unless you have it as part of a class feature. I (sputters). Whoa. (laughs)
I'm going to go hide in the corner. Yeah. Over here? You got it, okay. Actually I'm on a line with him.
Does he have any line stuff? I'll just stay back there. Okay, great. Protect me, Simeon. All right, that finishes your go, who's up next?
I'd like to try something if it's okay. What's up? Go for it, Xarlo. Tell me if this is possible because it seems like a lot but I have one prayer die left
that I can use on my own Hope. I am maxing out my Hope.
At 5th-level, I have Smite. "Spend three Hope to charge up a powerful Smite. On the next successful attack,
double your proficiency on the damage roll." And I say "Hey, green machine, be my sword"
and I run over and pick up Sir Dante and I want to combo attack. Yeah. And I want to attack this thing with the turtle.
(laughs) So you're going to move over and then fastball special it? Yeah. Yes. Hell yeah. (laughs)
Ha ha! Great. With that spiky armor, extreme. Yep. All right, so both of you go ahead and roll your attacks
for your respective weapons. Rolling for attacks. But you get to have advantage on yours because of your size. Okay.
Mine, it's a presence attack. 20 for me. 20 with?
Fear. All right. Yeah, you're definitely better than mine. Mine was terrible. So 20 with Fear.
Right. So that succeeds and because you are in your arch-form, when you succeed on an action rule, I gain a Fear. All right, that's true. So I get two Fear for that.
All right. But that does indeed hit, so both of you guys
go ahead and roll your damage and add them together. So I am doubling my proficiency which is four
which is eight plus because of the size, I add an additional d10.
So it's 9d10 for me currently. That is correct. (laughs)
Wow. Dang. Wow. That's insane. (hoots) Four.
Five. This is rad. Six. (hoots) Seven. (laughs)
(hoots) Stop. Jesus Christ. (laughs)
We're inspiring him. (laughs) I'm fucking Irish. 38.
38, 48. 48, 52, 57.
Plus 25. For me plus 25. Sheesh. (laughs) That's 82. What?
57. Did that double? That doubled it. To 77 to 82, yeah. That doubles, so that's four hit points.
Woo hoo. So I grab Dante by the waist. Ah, ha ha! He's got his blade in his hand and I just pick him up and he's my sword. (screams)
(laughs) Holy shit. You wield Sir Dante, who is wielding his own weapon.
That is fantastic. With a stab and a cut through, it's--
Wow. A double-cleave into this entity (slice)
and one of its heads just goes flying and vanishes into the back of the chamber. It's a heavy wound.
Have you let go of me or are you holding on? Well, put me in melee range with the damn thing. Yeah, yeah.
And you both would probably move up to do that anyway. Yeah. All righty. Fantastic.
That finishes your go? Done. That comes back to me with the Fear. All right, well I got some points to spend. Amazing.
It's going to spend a Fear. Don't throw in a Koopa. To go ahead and regenerate. It heals two of those hit points and gets its head back.
That's one activation there and the other three are going to activate. With that, it's going to go ahead and--
Hmm. Damn. It's going to move. (swoosh) Is it going to move? It is. Because first, I'm going to take a little swing at it.
You do. Because of that. I'll follow up with my Wall of Fire afterwards. Yep. Attack of opportunity.
All right, if it tries to leave melee, make an attack, make an Agility reaction roll, excuse me.
I'm just trying to find my stuff, Agility reaction roll. So...
I've spent two die. Agility reaction roll against their, and I don't make it, it's nine.
No, unfortunately it goes wide. Does Hope matter on that? No, it's a reaction roll. Yeah. 37 points of fire damage.
Ooh. 37. 4d10 plus your rally die. It's severe.
That takes off a secondary head, it gets burned off and it only has two heads at the moment (sizzles) and it only had two more of those.
I'm going to activate both those heads. Does it happen to destroy those crystals at all or not the same? Unfortunately, the crystals are immune to minor damage.
No. (waggles) Oh. Good to know. Or the ones that it's not in.
Okay. So you know what, no. Actually to that point then, go ahead and roll a d6 for each of these crystals because no, that was the part
that was exposed earlier when you hit it. Okay. And now it's hiding within the crystals. How many are there? And this would be two.
Come on, come on. Kill the seep. Two and a three. Two and a three? It's not in there. Dope. It was worth the randomization of it though.
Yeah. But aren't those crystals destroyed? These crystals, I'd say (shatters). These big giant mamba jambas?
Are destroyed. Those ta-tas. Ta-tas. Is it still your run?
It is. Okay. So it took that damage. One of the heads burned off. It only has two heads at the moment. It's going to activate both those heads
and it's coming for you again. In the the corner? Sheesh. Really? It hates you so much. It can hit everything in close range too.
♪ Because of you, I learned to pray ♪ Yeah. Wow. And Kexon is out of my Zone of Protection now
because it doesn't move with the hydra. It is spotty. Yeah. (shrieks) (laughs)
It came over here! (shrieks) (laughs) 22?
Yeah, that hits. Okay. Why did it hit so high? 20 points of physical damage.
Oh yeah. Oh my god. Oh no. And the next hit-- That's my last two hit points.
Fjord is a turtle all over again. Yeah, I feel like this is Chetney just like (slashes). 18. Yeah. (laughs)
Hits. For-- He's trying to kill your ass. 23 points of physical damage.
(crashes) No! Well here's the thing. Now we come to a death move.
Okay. You have three choices here. You can either Blaze of Glory where you get to immediately take an action
that's an auto-critical success but Kexon is dead.
Or you could avoid death and face consequences. You'd just turn unconscious until you are healed
and then you roll a Fear die to see if you perhaps lose a permanent Hope slot but you're out of the fight until healed.
Or you could risk it all and just roll your duality dice. If the Hope is higher, you stay on your feet,
you clear hit points and stress equal to the number that you rolled and if a crit is rolled,
you stay on your feet and clear all of it or if your Fear is higher, you die immediately. What do you want to do here?
The last one. Risk it all. Gamble! Rollies! My spells don't do anything
powerful enough that a crit would really make it exciting. Just the ones that I have selected aren't there.
So 2d12 with my duality dice? You just roll them and tell me which one's higher. How does it work again? Do you just have to-- It's just rollies against yourself.
Fear, he dies. Hope, he gets up. Fear. Oh, oh, oh. Ta-ta, ta-ta. Oh my god. Come on.
It's a 12, with hope. (cheering)
11 and a one. Yes! So Kexon stays up, and because you rolled a 12
on the hope die, you clear 12 hit points and stress.
12 hit points and stress? Yeah, you stay on your feet, and you clear HP and or stress equal to the number rolled.
Equal to the die roll! That's cool! So you have 12 points you can distribute to heal between the stress and your hit points.
Amazing! Great. I will get rid of all these hit points. That is wild. Whoa! Sitting pretty now. So, Travis.
Yes. Or Kexon. Describe to me how you get knocked to the edge of death,
pull yourself free, and come back stronger than you were.
(laughing) (stammering) Hm. The snapping jaws lift you up
and slam you into the ground. A second one grabs, and as they both bite into your shoulder, you hear something crack, and the darkness begins to tunnel vision your expression.
In that moment, what do you see? What do you think? I hear my family's voice in my head, saying--
Backstory! --be the one! Make a name for the family! And I go... (croaking)
I fly forward with my pincers, and they jam into the beast's belly, and for some reason, I can... (gulping)
I start sucking life out of the beast. Invigorated!
(beatboxing) (laughing) (beatboxing) Vampire. My wings (buzzing)
with a new bright light. Whoa! And nobody saw it. Yeah, I'm over here in my corner.
Well, he's dead. Hexon, driven by the memory of a family-- Well, he's dead! Well, he's dead, clearly. Yep, obviously. Anyway! All right, that finishes its go. Who's up?
I would love to take a nice little cartwheel tumble to get around the fire and head towards that crystal
that I can see right before me. Right here? Yes, I just want to take... No, the one to my right. Oh, here?
That one. You got it. I just want to take a nice, wonderful slash at it. Do it. All right.
(beatboxing) Yeah man, the whole T2. Yes.
That is a... Which is which? I'm trying to remember which is which.
Oh yes, that's right. It's a 21. It's brighter. Yeah, I know.
Which one did you have as hope? Technically, this one is hope, but I fucked up the run, so. But it's okay, yeah.
So 21, with? I rolled the wrong-- With hope. 21 with hope. Okay, so take the hope. That is a hit, so go ahead and roll a d6.
I should start using these, because it's more-- Crystals everywhere! All right, and let's-- That one on the far end. It's my own damn fault.
Wait, did you the fire wall? Where's the d8s? I did. Yeah. So does it stay up when you die? Well, he didn't die. He didn't die.
d8, d8. That's the instance with that, is you stay on your feet. Basically, before you fully go under, you--
Geez, that's such a gamble. That's a gamble. It is. It's a high reward, but high risk.
Yeah, yeah. And that's-- (indistinct).
Seven, eight, nine... 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16...
Just 20. What'd you roll on the d6? Oh, I didn't roll the d6 yet. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's a five. Five. That would be it. Nice!
That will be the final hit point. You strike the crystal, and it cracks a little bit,
and you feel something twitch within, trying to recoil, and in that moment, you push with all your might,
and you divide the crystal as it cracks in the center, the abscess itself bleeding out black ichor.
As you jam your blade into it, you feel it shudder, and then begin to liquefy
and pour out the sides of the broken crystal, the abscess destroyed. (cheering)
I have nothing witty to say. Sir Dante! This is just disgusting. This is just disgusting. You're disgusting! Die, die!
The hydra begins to screech and roil, and you watch as its glowing, mutated form,
the corners of its body begin to turn that ashen gray color. It can no longer regenerate.
Oh, great! Okay. It doesn't have that jelly. And it is vulnerable. Ooh! Yeah, yeah!
I turn around to Xarlo and I say, hey! Give me a boost! And I want to do a combo attack with Xarlo.
Go for it. Going up! Going up! So I imagine, you know a cheerleader basket toss?
Sure. You take me and launch me into the air. I'm going to send you like a javelin.
All right! Come here, lass! (grunts) And I take my fan, and I have both my fans,
I'm going to put them together so it's this 180 flying blade,
and I'm just going to (mimics whooshing) and nosedive into him. Hell yeah. Amazing.
A pizza slicer with bunny ears. Yeah, pretty much. Yep, yep. Awesome. All right, both of you guys, go ahead and roll.
You have advantage on the rolls, so each of you add a d6 to it, because it is vulnerable. Right, right, right, right. Right, right, right, right, right. 24 with fear for me.
Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. There we go. Ooh, well, that one's cocked.
Okay. Okay. That is going to be 18,
with hope. Which do you prefer, 18 with hope? Or 24 with fear? 24 with fear?
I don't remember what we needed. I don't remember what it was. I feel like it's over 20. I do too, so let's take the 24 with fear. Let's do 24 with fear.
Okay, 24 with fear. That gives me a fear, which I'll take. And we add up our damage. And that's a success.
Because it is a success for you, I get another fear. Actually, that's not true. All right. I'm sorry, I fucked up. But it's okay, we already made the call.
I forgot to add my ability score. You've got to remember that. But nevertheless, we already chose. Go ahead and roll your damage and add them together.
I rolled real well. You rolled real well? I rolled three 10s on my five 10s. Three 10s? Yes, dude.
36 total. I rolled real bad. 10 total. 10 total! 10 total.
46, all told. 46. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Well, all I'm doing is sending you on your way. Yes, yes, yes! You tell me how it gets fucked up.
Fuck it up to the tempo, girl! The two heads that are still functional turn back to try and snap at you in the air.
What do you do? So yeah, I have my two fans, and you know that moment with Trinity in The Matrix
where she's flying through the window, and she kind of turns? Turns? Hell yes! It's like that. Fuck yes!
The corkscrew. Yes! That makes no sense. Yeah, it makes no sense. Wait, what? All right. Why did you do that?
(indistinct). No, and the blade's kind of like a really wide--
Like an augur. Yes, yes! It just goes through it. Perfect, with the Seep abscess destroyed,
the actual form of the hydra is quite unstable, and as you impact, it seems to bend and rip,
and you tear through, and you feel many things moving around you as you pull and emerge the other side,
landing, catching yourself blade out. Yes. What little bit of blood there is, you scatter off.
Immaculate, untouched by the gore within. Gorgeous! As the body collapses on the ground. As it does, you watch the body tear apart,
and hundreds of dust skinks emerge from the inside-- Oh, ew. --and scatter, frightened. (screaming)
You've got to live! They were cute. They're not cute anymore. No, no, no. I don't like it, I don't like it. You freed them.
Do you hear a little... (squeaking) It's like Oogie Boogie. Yes! A little bit, yeah. Whoa! Mom?
Whoa! Whoa! Mama. ♪ I'm the boogieman ♪ As you take a moment to breathe,
you can all already see the faintest bit of red glow beginning to gently return to some of the nearby crystals--
Yay! --as the localized source of Seep has been destroyed,
the scattered blue glow of the various dust skinks vanishing into the darkness of the caverns.
But it looks like, for now, this particular source, the second source of recently (indistinct) Seep
has been annihilated. The Kroatona family is going to be so pissed.
We're going to have to probably lay low for a while. This night had everything.
It had amphibian mafia. It had fantastical magical burlesque.
It had spy shit. We seduced some poor chump and threw him in a shed, and then this! Oh, he's probably still stuck.
By the way, as you guys emerge from the cave, talking about this, the door... (mimics crashing)
"I don't know how I locked myself in there." Who are you? Just in briefs. I'm so sorry, can I help you?
Just in his briefs, ready for action. Oh yeah, no, he's-- Nakers? Naked. Have a good night!
Hello? Yeah, because we're-- "Where's the girls?" Oh. They were waiting for you.
Yeah, they got tired. As long as they could. They left. They left. They couldn't get back into...
It was locked. "Oh shit." But instead, I found these friends.
Hello! And we took care of your Seep problem. You were seeping. We had a wild time. We killed a big thing.
"That's fine, whatever." (groans) He missed it! That's the worst!
My cell phone died! "Oh man.
Well, have a good night." He walks in and closes the door behind him. Aw, buddy. Not even realizing that he doesn't know who you are,
doesn't know how you got in here. Come on over. My friends are coming over. Where are you? Okay, we're going to sleep.
Shit. No! Nobody go in that shed. The last thing you hear is,
"They're never going to believe me!" Yeah! As the door closes. But here, as you recover from a harrowing experience
and the near demise of your friend Kexon, this source of Seep destroyed--
Yes. This strange, mysterious baron still exists out there,
the one who masterminded these various seeds of corruption throughout the world, and the one note you have is
he seemed to hail from a location not far from here known as the Champion's Crown, a city of great commerce
and great competitive battle for glory. So maybe,
we'll do that another story. (groaning) But we'll end that here tonight, for this third,
this menage a trois-- Menage a trois, baby! --for the Menagerie-- Menage a trois! --as part of this Daggerheart open beta.
Thank you so much for hanging with us. I hope you enjoyed it as much as we did. Great job, Matt! It was chaos.
That was so much fun. That was so much fun! Liam: I never thought this would happen to me, and I was right.
Can we all do a last roll to see, to do a gamble? Oh yeah. To see if we would live or die?
To see if we would live or die. Okay. Live or die! Death roll. Who will live to tell your story? I lived. I lived, baby!
I would die. I'm alive! It would've been great knowing y'all. Oh, I would live. I would live, okay. These rolls, these dice-- Three alive, two dead.
Whew, that was close, though. Alive. Two died. Four to two. Dead, which would've been real awkward.
Oh my goodness. Well, who knows? Maybe we'll have a chance to continue the story in the future, or try other characters and other things.
We got some fun... We have so much cool shit with Daggerheart,
and to that point, thank you all so much for watching. If you haven't had a chance to dig into this game,
you can download all the materials of the open beta right now at daggerheart.com, and if you have already
and continue to do so, thank you so much for helping us make this game better and better.
Sincerely, all of your feedback and submissions to the surveys, both as players and GMs, have been astronomically important, and have helped
make this just that much cooler with each, each step. We're zeroing in on getting this to its final form,
in the months to come, so if you haven't had a chance to test it out yet and you want to give us your feedback, now is the time to do it, so please do.
But thank you all so very, very much. We'll see some of you live at the Greek this Saturday
for Bells Hells chaos. Up in the stars! But nevertheless, we love you very much,
and is it Thursday yet? (cheering) Goodnight.