List of Transcripts
JOHN BRADLEY: Hi, I'm John Bradley, I play Samwell Tarly in Game of Thrones, and in this game I'm going to be playing Mankum the bardic gnome. "I'm great and I know it."
LIAM O'BRIEN: Another modern folk hero enters our realm of adventure in CelebriD&D.
MATTHEW MERCER: When traversing the open road of the Black Valley Path from Jorenn Village to Westruun, it's best to travel in numbers, if those numbers are large enough that is. For not two days travel with the caravan southward the sounds of war drums and savage battle cries suddenly fill the air. Hired guards encircle the patrons, only to be cut down by a hooked blade and poisoned arrow. Ravagers, the scattered orc raiding band, bear down on you and your traveling companions. You fight to the best of your ability, harnessing the fight side of your fight-or-flight, but the orc numbers are overwhelming. You hear a terrible roar, a deep resonant bellow in the distance behind you. You turn to see—[whack]—a sharp pain in the back of your skull, then darkness. Time passes, an almost infinite-seeming period of time without thought... dreams... and groggily you find yourselves awakening, your body sore and stiff. You instinctually tug and pull, and you find your wrists and ankles bound by ragged dry rope that scrapes against the exterior of your skin as you try and tug against it. Your eyes slowly widen the small flickers of firelight that enter this medium-sized tent, seemingly covered from a night-based exterior, you see piles of spoils: jewelry and dried meats, and appears to be a number of other individuals that are not moving. You glance around to see five others who are also finding consciousness and seemingly in the same level of pain, the life that you're currently finding yourselves in, begin to rouse, quietly acknowledging with eyesight who is around you and awake. So, going around the table, would you like to describe your character, introduce yourself?
JESSICA CHOBOT: Hi, my name is Jessica Chobot. I am playing a tiefling warlock by the name of Dietrich who's a little bit of a noob to her demonic powers but when "s" hits the fan and the darkness sets, she is on fire and will kill everyone.
LIAM: My name is Liam O'Brien. I play Vax'ildan, the half-elf rogue. He's a bit of a shithead, but he would do anything for his twin sister. 
LAURA BAILEY: I'm Laura Bailey. I'm playing Vex'ahlia the half-elf ranger, twin sister to Vax'ildan, who is unfortunately not as cool.
DAN CASEY: I'm Dan Casey. Today I'm playing the dwarven rogue Dupont Dupont. "If there's coin to be had, I'll be there. Cha-ching!"
MATT: The sixth person in the group, you now see, is a human male with light purple skin and a set of short sharpened horns akin to your blood lineage.
JESSICA: Yeah, I got real sweet horns by the way, y'all.
LAURA: Tight.
JESSICA: Yeah.
MATT: Hint of demonic blood in the back history. His sharpened horns protrude from the back of his head, curling upward ever so slightly, and as you guys are all kind of muttering to yourselves, kind of getting a feel for who's nearby, he spits a bit of blood on the ground. "It's about time you lot woke up. Welcome to your final day." And he struggles against the bonds a bit. "Well I guess if we're doing introductions, my name is Hubris. Make a joke and I'll piss in your wounds."
JESSICA: Jesus.
DAN: Good luck doing that when you're tied up. 
MATT: Speak for yourself, you can't avoid me. I got good range.
DAN: Oh no.
JESSICA: Oh god please let there be a pissing match.
DAN: A literal pissing contest.
MATT: At which point you hear suddenly a voice go, "Hey! Shut up in there. Lay down or I'll gut you like a fish!" And from the flaps of the outside of the tent you watch as a burly-chested, that kind of dark purplish-blue, muscle-bound orc kind of curls in, his lower jaw protruding with these two large tusks, one broken at the tip, and these piercing yellow eyes as he kind of comes in and sneers. "Only you first, little one." (chuckles) Slams the flap shut and then walks back out to take guard outside of the tent.
LIAM: "What an asshole." Do we have anything on us, or are we stripped bare of weapons–? 
MATT: You have your armor on you, but you have no weapons on you.
(groans)
DAN: And our hands are bound?
MATT: Your hands are currently bound by rope, yes. 
LAURA: Are they connected to our feet or can we get (chomping sound)
MATT: They're not connected to your feet; they're separate.
LAURA: All right, I'm gonna (chomping sound)
MATT: You're gonna try and bite through?
LAURA: I'm gonna like try to...
DAN: Eat the rope!
LAURA: I'm not gonna try to eat through it, I'm gonna try to, like you know, get the knots with my teeth.
MATT: Okay, make an Acrobatics check to see if you can slip free of the bindings. 
LIAM: Tooth Acrobatics.
LAURA: Tooth Acrobatics check. That would be a 19.
MATT: Okay so as you—you guys watch as she kind of gets her teeth and tugs and as she does she moves her hands around, eventually finally getting a little bit of slack. Slips one hand out, pulls the other free, and begins going for her ankle bindings, and she is now free. 
JESSICA: Sweet. Do I have my imp with me at all? Did he hide or is he with them as well as the bear? 
MATT: Well you don't sense him immediately around you at the moment. Do you want to call out to him?
JESSICA: Yeah, let's call out, see if he's around. Bring out the imp!
[laughter]
LIAM: Hubris, fetch the imp.
[laughter]
MATT: So as as you call out, uh, and what's his name?
JESSICA: Uh, it's PBH.
MATT: PBH, okay.
[laughter]
JESSICA: Listen, if you guys guess his name then he disappears, but right now, yeah.
MATT: So as you say, "PBH", you see a flash up in the back of the tent on what looks like a pile of refuse. "Yes? Yes, Mistress?" The small, red-skinned imp with these leathery wings, maybe about a foot tall, is just perched there, his eyes wide. He looks a little nervous, and he's shaking like a chihuahua; he's kind of like a lap dog from Hollywood.
LAURA: Aww.
JESSICA: I hate chihuahuas. But god damn it.
MATT: "What do you require?" 
JESSICA: PBH, come here and untie me. Hurry up!
MATT: "Very well." [flapping noises] Lands at you and starts, like, gnawing at the ropes. I'll say go to make an acrobatics check with advantage; he's helping you. One more, and take the higher the two. Five and a five.
JESSICA: Five and a five.
MATT: It's gonna take you a while. So you're working on it. What are you doing?
LAURA: I start...
MATT: Okay, you're taking off his bindings. You guys do... All right, so, Mankum, what are you doing?
JOHN: I'm gonna use my powers of persuasion to convince these guys that I am worth releasing.
MATT: Okay, and which one do you talk to? 
JOHN: I'm going to try persuade Victoria that I am so key and essential to this. I am so key and essential for this to you.
LAURA: You are?
JOHN: You're in serious trouble if I don't get free. I'm physically not able to free myself, but if you let me free, believe me, you know what I can do, you know what I bring to the table; it's a lot of stuff. You don't want to be without me really. Please.
LAURA: I actually do know quite a few gnomes.
JOHN: Yeah, but not like this one.
LAURA: No no, they're all invaluable, all the ones I've met.
JOHN: Oh? Well... well... you're gonna have to take a leap of faith here, I'm afraid. Please take a leap of faith.
[laughter]
MATT: Go and make a persuasion check, and add your persuasion skill bonus to it.
JOHN: Okay. What's that? 
MATT: It's a nine.
JOHN: Nine plus... seven, so 16.
MATT: 16. So he's pretty persuasive. He's got a gleam in his smile and a twinkle in his eye, and through your experience with gnomes, which have been everywhere from shifty to somewhat trustworthy, seems more of the trustworthy sort.
LAURA: All right, I send my brother to release Dupont Dupont, who I've worked with before. Don't worry, he's trustworthy.
JESSICA: No, leave him! Leave him!
DAN: I'd like to try to wriggle free before she gets to me. 
LAURA: And I run over. I'm going to start working on your bindings. 
MATT: All right, acrobatics check.
DAN: [laughs] I rolled a 1.
[laughter] 
DAN: Oh boy, my feet are somehow tied.
MATT: So, as Vex comes over to you and begins taking your bindings free and eventually get your hands free and kind of rub your wrists to escape the moment, Vax, you start walking over to Dupont Dupont, who in the process is like, "Nope, I got this." And is getting himself somewhat more tied in—
DAN: We're all rogues here.
LIAM: No, keep going, you're doing great.
DAN: I'm a master of ropes.
[laughter]
LIAM: You keep doing that, I'm going to look for weapons. Are there... do we see any blades around?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
LIAM: Yeah, ooh. 25.
MATT: 25. You begin to glance through and move about, and you're feeling the ground around here. It's not grassy, it's not anything soft; it is a hard bit of dirt on stone. But as you pull through, most of the things that you find in the tent around you are bits of scavenged jewelry, small boxes, things that were obviously taken from the caravan that was attacked, some of it taking damage in the process. No weaponry. 
LAURA: I start grabbing jewelry and...
MATT: [laughing] Just start pocketing it.
JESSICA: I see that, and I'm like, "Good idea." Am I untied yet? Because I want to grab some jewelry too. 
MATT: You are about now, yes.
JESSICA: Sweet.
LIAM: Anything as simple as a letter opener or a butter knife in here? 
MATT: Nothing like that. 
LIAM: Nothing. All right, well, I'll do it the hard way. I'm going to start helping him get his ropes off.
MATT: Okay. Mankum, what are you doing?
JOHN: Is there anything that we can use as a disguise at all? Anything we can need to kind of camouflage, any shrubbery, any kind of greenery?
MATT: No shrubbery at the moment, but in the piles of materials that have been put here there are a lot of pieces of like sackcloth—
JOHN: Oh, perfect.
MATT: —and burlap and some scraps of clothing and things that were probably things to be sold when it got to its destination. So you do find some nice silk shirts.
JOHN: Well that's really going to be useful right if we're going to try and kind of disguise ourselves, change our
identity slightly.
LAURA: Sure.
MATT: Possibly. 
JOHN: Yeah. 
MATT: So you want to go ahead and grab some of the materials?
JOHN: Yeah, I'll do that.
MATT: All right.
JESSICA: Can I use this as well, then? 
MATT: You can. You actually have the Disguise Self ability, so.
JESSICA: Okay, well then, yeah, I'm just gonna [poof]...
MATT: Into?
JESSICA: Into whatever that thing was that stuck his face into the tent.
MATT: Okay, you watch as her exterior now shifts into that same kind of dark-grayish-skinned orc creature that came in through the tent and yelled at you earlier. Her muscles kind of expand visually, her jaw kind of gets a little more monstrous, her teeth extend a bit, and her eyes go a bit piercing yellow. So she now has a—
JESSICA: [in exaggerated voice] "Get your jewelry and let's go!"
[laughter]
DAN: I put the lotion in the basket.
JESSICA: "Put the lotion in the basket!"
LAURA: So are we disguising ourselves to be different people and you're going to, what, walk us out of here? 
JESSICA: Oh, that's a—I'm glad you're smart. Yeah, that's a good idea, let's do that.
LAURA: All right. So, we should be bound still. 
JESSICA: Well, hmm, yeah, I guess, but I don't want to actually tie tie you guys up, just wrap it around.
JOHN: Yeah. 
LAURA: Yeah, just loosely put the rope around our wrists, that we can bust out of really quickly if we need to.
LIAM: I'm going to sneak over to the tent flap and just crack it and see what I can see through a little sliver there. 
MATT: Okay, make a perception check.
LAURA and LIAM: Ohhh.
LIAM: Hey I'll use Luck because I still have it.
LAURA and LIAM: Hey!
LAURA: Much better. 
LIAM: Better. Perception, you say? 20. 
MATT: All right so, Mankum, as you come up alongside Vax, you both peer outside of the tent. You both visually see standing maybe two feet out from the front that same bulky, brutish fellow that's been guarding the exterior of this tent since you woke up here. You see a bonfire about eight feet beyond him, where the flames are flickering and burning and the smoke's kind of billowing up and filling a ceiling. And at this point you notice the darkness isn't from nightfall, but it appears to be that you're in some sort of a cavern network. Who knows how deep into whatever rock or mountain you've found yourself. You do notice that there are a number of large tree trunks that have been shaven and set up to form almost like a spit and there's meat cooking on it, and it takes you a moment to realize that the meat resembles the shape of an odd arm and a leg...
JESSICA: Barf.
JOHN: Whoa.
MATT: ...humanoid. You also see about three other orcish figures that are kind of patrolling around and walking, grunting to each other in a language you don't understand. [makes Orc language sounds] So this place seems to be somewhat defended and armed. You do see a tent across the other side of the fire that has another guard facing out who currently has a blade on his side and is just kind of scratching himself and looking like he's bored and frustrated.
LIAM: And no weapons anywhere else in this space.
MATT: Not visibly out, there's just one on the orc.
LIAM: Just on the guy.
MATT: There's the tent across the way.
LAURA: They've got our stuff.
JESSICA: I say, "Here's a proposition: I roll out looking like I'm taking you guys with me to go to the cook for slaughter and then once I get you outside the tent, we run as fast as humanly possible.
LAURA: But our weapons.
DAN: I'm also pretty stealthy.
LAURA: I'm also pretty stealthy, and I can cast Pass without a Trace on all of us, which potentially could make us even more stealthy. It is rather dark in here. And if we sneak out the back, we may not have to do that.
LIAM: Orcs aren't always the brightest either, but I think they know vaguely how many of us there are in here.
LAURA: If the the back of the tent, not where the flap is, but, is there anything behind us? Does it sound like there's more crap behind us?
MATT: You push and there's a little bit of give to the back side of the tent, but it hits stone. It looks like this tent is propped against the back of the cavern wall.
DAN: What else is in the tent that we're in, apart from you mentioned some jewelry?
MATT: There's the piles of jewelry, there's piles of scavenged boxes and clothing, and pieces of wagon wheels and whatever will seem to have been pulled off of the caravan and thrown haphazardly in the corner to suss out later.
DAN: Is there enough, and hear me out: is there enough that we could stuff jewelry or something inside the clothing and then put the ropes on these dummies and make them think we're still in here while we sneak out? 
[laughter]
JESSICA: That's impressive.
JOHN: That is pretty impressive.
JESSICA: That's a lot of work.
LIAM: You want to make five sack boys? 
DAN: Yes. [laughter] Just some casual mannequins.
MATT: Okay, who wants to helm this endeavor?
JESSICA: I'm passing.
[laughter]
DAN: Just an idea. I'm also open to just sneaking away.
LAURA: What if we lure the guard inside and then jump him when he gets in? I mean it's all of us against one.
JESSICA: I can still do that with my—
LAURA: Disguise.
JESSICA: —disguise, and be like, "Hey, come help me with the prisoners."
LAURA: Yeah, they're stupid, right? 
JESSICA: Yeah.
JOHN: Are these guards rich men? 
MATT: They are ravaging barbarians. Whatever they're wearing on them, it seems to be piecemeal leather armor, metal weapons that have been scavenged or forged in some very crude way to be hooked and nasty-looking.
JOHN: So they're not men who'd have their heads turned by the promise of some jewelry?
MATT: Probably not, no. 
DAN: They're rich with us meat.
MATT: Yeah.
JOHN: Oh, I see.
MATT: They want to eat you. 
JOHN: Oh, well I don't want that. [laughter] So let's... come on.
LAURA: I say we...
JESSICA: I say we go for your idea. 
LAURA: Yeah, I say we lure him inside, we grab one of the bags; the minute he's inside, throw a bag over his head and all of us just start—
JESSICA: We got jewelry, is there any like candlesticks or something we can beat them over the head with?
LIAM: Yeah, are there any clay pots or anything holding other things in them?
JESSICA: You said we got wagon wheels. Anybody strong enough to lift a wagon wheel and smash this guy in the face?
LAURA: We're all pretty fucking weak.
[laughter]
LIAM: Dupont looks able.
DAN: I'm sturdy.
JOHN: But there's jewelry, right? 
MATT: Yeah.
JOHN: So we can we can slip rings on our fingers [inaudible]
JESSICA: Oh, yeah!
LAURA: Oh, good call, good call! I like it.
JESSICA: Brass knuckles, gold knuckles.
DAN: Makeshift, yeah.
JOHN: Knuckle dusters.
JESSICA and LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Yeah, yeah.
JESSICA: Let's do that.
JOHN and LIAM: [cross-talk]
MATT: All right, so I'll say make an investigation check, make an investigation check, and see how many rings you can scavenge from the pile.
JOHN: Okay.
JESSICA: Smart. Ooh.
MATT: That's an eight.
JOHN: 12. 
MATT: 12, okay.
LAURA: 21.
MATT: 21. Okay, between the two of you guys, you managed to pull out—some are more just decorative, but some thick heavy iron rings, blacksmithed it seemed. Between the two of you, you get some decent knuckle duster makeshift weaponry for you.
JOHN: Fantastic. 
JESSICA: Cool. 
MATT: All right.
JESSICA: All right, let me know when you guys want to do this.
DAN: So, I'm going to wait and, am I bludgeoning him? Am I taking this sack and trying to strangle him? What am I doing?
LIAM: I am an assassin by trade, so if you pull a sack over his head and I take a wagon wheel, I will club the shit out of him. 
DAN: Oh perfect.
LIAM: Yeah. 
DAN: Classic assassination technique!
LIAM: Yes.
[Laughter]
LIAM: Happens in Hitman all the time.
[laughter]
MATT: So.
JESSICA: We good to go?
MATT: Everyone ready?
LAURA: Okay, yeah. So that's all, but we have to look like we're still, you know—
MATT: If you have any spells that would be useful for this, feel free to look at them now, get an idea of what you can do. 
LAURA: Oh oh oh oh! Good call. Wait.
MATT: So this is a preparation method, is you glance over what you have at your disposal.
LAURA: What if—
DAN: These hands.
LAURA: What if I cast Spike Growth inside the tent and then when he walks in he'll be hurt instantly because—
JESSICA: Will that hurt him too soon for you guys to do your stuff?
LAURA: Possibly. But it was a cool spell.
JESSICA: I like where your head's at.
DAN: But think of how sick that would look.
JOHN: Yeah.
LIAM: Dupont, you and I flank the door. You got the sack, I got the wheel, as soon as he walks in, one, two, three-four-five.
DAN: All right.
JESSICA: Yeah, I got PBH.
LAURA: And you and I will lay on the ground, maybe—
JOHN: Yeah?
LAURA: ...and still look like we're bound, so it looks like we're still weak.
JOHN: Okay, perfect. Yeah, I like it. Or maybe Stinking Cloud as soon as it comes in. Stinking Cloud, disorientated.
JESSICA and LAURA: Oooh.
JESSICA: All right. 
MATT: It's a big area, too. You're gonna hit—
JESSICA: Will that hurt us as well, though? 
DAN: Will we get caught in the stank? 
LIAM: Will we get hit, is the question.
JOHN: Yeah but we're prepared for it though, so we can maybe hold our mouth and noses?
DAN: Hold our breath.
MATT: Maybe, yeah. But seeing as how it's a big area? So if you wanted to use that you could hit the guy outside and all the other orcs in the immediate vicinity.
JOHN: Oh, seems like a waste.
LAURA: The minute we jump him, then you do it outside.
MATT: So, something to consider.
JOHN: Oh yeah, perfect. Yeah, okay, I'll consider that.
JESSICA: That's your power, is a gigantic fart.
[laughter]
JOHN: Yeah, basically. Don't underestimate the power of a gigantic fart.
[laughter]
DAN: Cleared the caverns.
MATT: All right, so are you initiating this?
JOHN: Are you ready to do this?
LAURA: Oh god, oh god, oh god, okay. Wait, I'm gonna lay down on the ground.
DAN: Assume the second position.
JOHN: I'm gonna lie down on the ground.
LAURA: You know, weak and...
JESSICA: I do it super-casual though. Like, I don't want him to get too much of an idea, so I just quickly lift up the tent flap and like, just the face, and like, "Hey, come here and help me with these prisoners, they're a pain in my ass!"
[laughter]
JOHN: Nice.
MATT: All right, as you glance out and he turns, whips around, and pulls a short sword from his side, goes, "Huh?" Roll a deception check.
LAURA: Oh god, please roll well.
JESSICA: Oh, which one?
DAN: Don't worry, we've got an emergency fart.
JESSICA: C'mon baby, no whammies, no whammies, no whammies.
LIAM: Natural 20, natural 20.
MATT: Everyone needs an emergency fart.
DAN: Just in case.
JESSICA: 18! 
[Applause]
JOHN: Fantastic.
MATT: All right. As the flap closes, the orc kinda goes, "Hmph, dumb little folk", he comes into the side of the tent. "Which one?" 
DAN: I make with the sack.
LIAM: Sack 'im!
DAN: Sack 'im boys!
[laughter]
MATT: Make an attack roll. Just add your dexterity modifier to it.
LAURA: Oh, god.
DAN: [clears throat] Eleven.
MATT: Eleven. As soon as you leap with the sack, his kind of battle sight kicks in. "(grunts)" He pulls up and grabs your wrist, and throws you to the ground. The sack completely misses. 
LAURA: Oh no!
LIAM: (bludgeoning sound)
MATT: You're going to strike him?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: All right, so yeah, as you're going to swing with him, with the improvised weapon, go ahead and roll for an attack with it using your dexterity modifier. There's no bonus beyond that, because you're not proficient with improvised weapons.
LIAM: 'Kay. Oh, that's not good, but that's all right.
LAURA: That's good, that's good.
LIAM: No bonus at all, so it's a 15.
MATT: It's a 15. That does hit, so go ahead and roll 1d4 and, yeah, you just take 1d4 damage.
LIAM: Is it a sneak attack though? Does sneak attack go through a wheel?
MATT: It is sneak attack, yes.
LIAM: All right, great. 
LAURA: Can I—
DAN: No on expects a wheel.
JESSICA: Yeah.
LIAM: And if I'm hidden... am I hidden? If I'm hidden it's an automatical crit, right? 
MATT: He's well aware now that you're there.
LIAM: All right, clang! For five, nine, total of 14. 
MATT: Fourteen, all right. So as he sidesteps Dupont, throws him to the ground, (boof) the dwarf hits the dirt, suddenly Vax turns around and whaps him like baseball-style to the chin and just kicks him in the stomach and you go falling back against the wall. The two of you now.
LAURA: We jump up and attack his legs.
JOHN: Yeah, now we jump up and attack him.
MATT: All right, so you leap up—
LAURA: I punch him in his nuts!
MATT: Okay, she goes for the nuts; where are you going for? 
JOHN: I'm going to use my acrobatics.
MATT: Okay.
JOHN: Climb up his body, get on his back, go for the neck.
LAURA: Tight!
JESSICA: Smart.
MATT: All right, go ahead and roll an acrobatics check. 
JOHN: Go for the neck and the throat.
LIAM: Scrappy. 
JOHN: It's going to be plus three, anDAN: seven.
MATT: Seven. 
JOHN: It's not ideal.
MATT: So you climb part way up, you can't quite get to the neck, but there's still like some decent midsection there to punch for if you want to. 
JOHN: Yeah yeah yeah? Okay.
JESSICA: Hit him in the kidneys! 
MATT: So I'll have both you guys go roll an attack roll, so roll another d20.
JOHN: Yeah.
MATT: And then add your strength modifier, which is plus two.
LAURA: Oh no, I add strength? 
MATT: Yep.
LAURA: Fudge.
LIAM: Roll high. Yes!
LAURA: Oh good, that's okay. 16?
JOHN: Five. Five in total. 
MATT and JESSICA: Aww.
JOHN: I do no good to nobody.  I'm such a deadweight.
LAURA: Wait, which dice are you rolling? 'Cuz that one needs to not happen anymore.
MATT: So as you punch him a few times in the stomach, this orc must be doing some P90X. Pretty tough abs on there, you're not quite getting through. Laura, you go ahead and you, however, do get a punch off there, so you hit, add your strength modifier. Just one damage. What's your strength modifier?
LAURA: Negative two.
MATT: Okay, so you do one point of damage. [laughter] (impact sounds)
LAURA: But it's in his nuts, man.
MATT: It is in his nuts.
JESSICA: That is true. I mean, even when you lightly graze 'em, I feel like—
LAURA: Maybe orc nuts aren't in the same place though, I don't know.
LIAM: They're super calloused, though.
DAN: Yeah.
MATT: That's okay, that one hit point of damage was all that he really needed. 
DAN: He's really been working out.
MATT: So as you guys, as you pummel him in the stomach it kind of loosens him up as you get down and whack! Hit him right in the orc nards. And he (groans) crumples with the ground and Hubris, the other tiefling fellow, just kind of runs up and kicks him in the side of the head. "I helped."
DAN: Ah, the double tap.
LAURA: I forgot Hubris was in here. 
JESSICA: Also, I'm giggling my ass off right now.
MATT: And so is your imp. "(cackles)"
JOHN: At this point, is he down now?
MATT: He's unconscious on the ground, yeah. 
JOHN: Okay, can I use my medicinal skills to try and help Dupont, who's still...
MATT: Yeah, yeah.
JOHN: What kind of state is he in from that attack? Is he—
MATT: He's a bit bruised in the face.
DAN: Flush with embarrassment. 
[laughter]
JOHN: Oh, if it's only embarrassment.
MATT: Yeah, you turn him over and he he looks very embarrassed but not too hurt so far.
JOHN: Oh I was worried that he was kind of mortally wounded.
MATT: Not yet. However, as you go and inspect him and you're near the edge of the tent you can hear what sounds like a few voices go "(Orc language words)".
LAURA: Oh, shit.
JESSICA: Aw, man.
LAURA: Be him, be him, be the guy.
MATT: And you hear footsteps coming your direction. 
JESSICA: Oh, good idea. kay I peek my head out again. "Everything's fine! Fuck off!"
LIAM: Mankum, do you have that fart ready?
JESSICA: Hurry, get the fart ready.
JOHN: Always ready.  Always ready.
MATT: Make a deception check with disadvantage, so roll twice and take the lower one.
LAURA and JOHN: Oh no.
JESSICA: 13. 8.
LIAM: Plus?
JESSICA: Plus deception? Four.
MATT: As soon as your face shows up and you say that and shut it, you hear a voice go, "(angry Orc language sounds)". And you hear blades being unsheated.
LAURA and JESSICA: No no, fart now fart now fart!
JOHN: Oh no no no no no. Fart fart fart fart fart. [Laughter] Yeah, Stinking Cloud. Twenty foot radius sphere of yellow, nauseating gas. 
MATT: Yeah.
JOHN: It sounds like just what we need, right?
LAURA and JESSICA: Yeah.
MATT: So as she pulls away, you kind of push the flap open and release your hands. The incantation leaves your lips and suddenly as these two orcs that are like lumbering towards you around the campfire, the entire space in the center between this tent and the opposite side fills with this green noxious gas, this kind of hint of yellow. The interior of it kind of ignites from the flame in the middle of the bonfire and detonates briefly...
JOHN: Yes.
JESSICA: [laughs]
MATT: ...sending the two orcs rolling about five feet to each side. (impact sounds) Let me see if they make their saving throws.
LIAM: That's pure methane.
JESSICA: That's awesome.
MATT: Spell DC is 15. No, neither of them make it, and the other guard on the other side doesn't make it either. So what happens here is after you hear this dull detonation that echoes through the cavern, so you get the sense that there is a bit of attention coming your direction relatively soon.
DAN: Don't worry, I'm sure no one heard it.
MATT: But at the moment the three orcs that are immediately around the area are on the ground right now clutching their stomachs and they're just retching. One of them starts to vomiting to the side, the two that are on the ground just going (pained coughing sounds). There is no immediate threat, and you if you wanted to, you could rush around the exterior of the cloud to the other tent. 
JOHN: Okay.
LAURA: Yeah. 
JESSICA: Yeah. 
LAURA: Let's do that.
DAN: Yeah.
JOHN: Perfect, let's do that.
MATT: All right, so you're leading the charge, everyone else running behind your new gnome friend. You rush around the exterior of the fire and head to the secondary tent there. What do you guys do? 
LAURA: I want to keep an eye out for any like, where our weapons could be stored, because they have to be somewhere, right?
MATT: Make a quick investigation check. You don't hear anyone approaching yet, but you get the sense you have a short time before other members of the Ravagers begin to arrive.
LAURA: 19?
MATT: 19. So as you guys start over there and keep an eye out, you quickly look into the tent across the way. Immediately into it looks to be a stack of scavenged weaponry. 
LAURA: (gasp)
JESSICA: Sweet!
JOHN: Oh, amazing.
LAURA: Guys! In here!
JESSICA: All right.
MATT: All right, you guys rush in there, you take about 20 or 30 seconds just rummaging through—it's not a huge pile, it's like maybe 25 or so weapons that are scattered about. You find your bow, you find your quiver and your arrows. You find your daggers. You find your sword and crossbow as well as your bolts. Everything you guys—all the equipment that was taken from you is available, but the time it takes you to gather them, you begin to hear what sounds like a number of other orcs rushing up.
LAURA: Shit. Can I turn and cast Spike Growth on the ground in front of the tent? 
MATT: Yes you can.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: All right, so the ground just outside of the tent, you watch as some of the rocks suddenly begin to (blade sounds) jut up into these stone spikes, these small spears that weren't there before. And as you're all equipping yourselves, you hear (heavy footsteps), "(pained exclamations)", and you see as two orcs start kind of coming past the front of the tent clutching the bottoms of their feet which are now bleeding and wounded from stepping onto these. I need everyone to roll initiative.
LAURA: Oh god, that was so fast.
LIAM: Ooh. Grab your d20.
MATT: Yeah, roll a d20, and then add your initiative.
JESSICA: Ah, 20!
JOHN: Oh yeah. Yep.
LIAM: And then you add...
LAURA: Okay, seven... 
LIAM: Seven plus that.
JOHN: Okay, nine.
MATT: All right, Vax, what'd you get?
LIAM: Twelve. 
MATT: Twelve. Vex?
LAURA: Fourteen.
DAN: Fifteen!
[oohs]
LAURA: Dupont Dupont!
DAN: Surprise, surprise!
[laughter]
MATT: Perfect. And Hubris, who is kind of behind you guys at this point, is, oh, dead last with a three. Okay, so Dietrich, you see these two orcs kind of rush to the front, they're holding their feet, they turn around and see you, they already have their weapons drawn. You're the first to go; what are you gonna do?
JESSICA: Fu—uh, I'm gonna...
MATT: The gas is right behind them, by the way. 
DAN: [laughs] She's speaking some fell language.
MATT: Like, they just skirted by the radius of the gas and it's maybe directly behind them you see kind of still billowing in the space as you're concentrating on it. 
JESSICA: I, can I use Eldritch Blast on them to knock them into the cloud again? 
MATT: Do you have the ability that pushes them back? You do.
JESSICA: I do? Do I?
MATT: It pushed them back ten feet; you do.
JESSICA: Sweet, I'm gonna do that.
MATT: Okay. All right, so go ahead and roll an attack. You get two blasts at this level, I believe? 
JESSICA: Two? Four. Seven.
MATT: Okay, seven plus, where's your... 
JESSICA and MATT: Eight. 
MATT: That hits. So you watch as she puts her hand out and you watch as these two glowing kind of bluish-green blasts just fire out with these arcane bolts, one just manages to be dodged by one of the orcs at the front; the second one hits him in the stomach and he goes flying back past into the cloud, where he immediately fails the saving throw and begins doubling over. 
LAURA: Yeah!
MATT: So now he's currently caught up in the Stinking Cloud; the other one, though, is still standing there ready to go, and it's his go. So as the one that dodged your blast ducks out of the way, and then with a giant jagged-looking greatsword makes a giant swing towards you
JESSICA: Son of a B.
MATT: That is a...
JESSICA: Sacrifice yourself, PBH!
MATT: That's a 19, 19 to hit. What's your armor class?
JESSICA: Armor is 14.
MATT: 14, that hits.
LAURA: And they're taking 2d4 piercing damage for every five feet they travel in the Spike Growth. 
LIAM: Ohhh.
MATT: Correct. That is fourteen points of slashing damage. 
JESSICA: Okay so mark that off of your hit points.
LAURA: Oh shit.
MATT: And a guy in the back, oh, he takes two points of damage from rushing past the spikes there, and then the—another orc rushes up behind him, and he has a longsword out and he's gonna go ahead and strike at you as well, because you're right at the front. 
JESSICA: Jesus, guys!
MATT: That's a...
DAN: Hey, you shot first.
JESSICA: Anybody want to help?
V: Well, yes!
MATT: That's a 14, which just hits you. So you immediately take 10 points of slashing damage after that. 
LAURA: Oh no! Oh no! 
JESSICA: All right. All right.
DAN: I will always remember you!
JESSICA: Anybody? Anyone, seriously. 
DAN: Yeah.
JESSICA: What the fuck? 
MATT: Dupont, you're up. 
DAN: Seeing my demon-wielding friend in danger, I'm going to get a running start and leap at the one with the greatsword, leaping onto his chest, and I want to stab both of my daggers into his ears.
LAURA: Ooh!
JESSICA: Yeah!
MATT: Okay so go ahead and roll for two attacks, your main attack and your offhand.
DAN: All right. Okay, that is a, oh, 15. 
MATT: 15 hits.
LAURA: Awww.
DAN: And a natural one. 
MATT: Okay, roll damage for the first one. You do get sneak attack damage because he's currently adjacent to Dietrich. 
DAN: Okay, so that is two, six and sneak attack is...
MATT: 3d6.
DAN: Oh ho ho, there we go. Okay so it's a four, five, five: fourteen. Plus six: twenty. 
MATT: So yeah, as you leap onto him, the one dagger hand you go to swing and he kind of lets loose the grasp of the greatsword, grabs your other wrist in mid-air as you're like "(grunt)"...
DAN: Oh, bother.
MATT: But you grin; in your other hand that's free you just jam your blade right into his solar plexus and jam it up into his throat, kind of gut him from the sternum up. He then gurgles and takes one big swipe at the sword but his strength is already leaving him and it's a wide swing. Falls onto the ground. The other guy with the longsword is still standing there, though. That's the end of your turn. That brings us to Vex.
LAURA: Ah! I'm gonna shoot the other guy.
MATT: Go for it.
LIAM: We got one left or two left?
MATT: You have currently four right now that are currently vomiting in the cloud, and one that's currently
unaffected by it. 
DAN: Crazy things have happened to all my rolls.
LAURA: 14?
MATT: 14 hits.
LAURA: Oh good, yay! Okay, 1d8. Hold on, hold on, I'm gonna find it. 1d8 plus five is eight. Is that just it? Is eight damage?
MATT: Yep.
LAURA: Oh, well, there you go, eight. 
MATT: All right.
LAURA: And then I have an extra attack: whenever I use my action to attack I can do it twice.
MATT: You can.
LAURA: All right, I'm gonna do it again. Oh, shit. Yeah, that one hits, so that's 14 plus eight.
MATT: That hits, roll damage a second time. 
LAURA: Okay. That's a ten for the damage.
MATT: Ten. The second arrow sinks into his chest following the first one and as he has his longsword back, is gonna go for a gutting motion towards Dupont Dupont, who's immediately in front of him. The second arrow sinks into the side, and he "(groan) (gurgle)" just coughs a bit of blood on his chest before he crumples onto the body of the one that already collapsed.
LAURA: Nice.
MATT: All right, that brings us to Vax and Mankum. You guys see the two orcs immediately there collapse, the other four on the outside are still coughing and vomiting. What are you doing?
LIAM: Like doubled over vomiting and stuff, right?
MATT: Yep.
JOHN: Well, while they're kind of disoriented and kind of discombobulated by all that, they're not really in control of their movements, they don't know what's going on, I'm going to go a bit of crossbow.
MATT: Okay.
JOHN: A little bit of crossbow into the mix.
MATT: All right so—
JOHN: On the blind side.
MATT: Perfect. So you're— 
DAN: Getting murdered while you're vomiting.
[laughter]
MATT: All right, so you pull up your crossbow and you go ahead and aim for the guys on the ground. Go ahead and roll an
attack against him.
JOHN: And there's extra attack on this as well, so.
MATT: That's true because he's incapacitated.
JOHN: Yeah? Okay. 
MATT: Yep.
JOHN: Seven. 
MATT: And...
JOHN: It better be a higher number than that. 16! 
MATT: That'll do. All right, so as you load the crossbow with your first strike, the one that just got pushed out of the way by your tiefling friend here on the ground, the crossbow bolt sinks into part of its torso go ahead and roll damage on that it's 1d6 plus two.
LAURA: Nice!
MATT: Eight points of damage. So the one sinks deeply into the side of its leg and thigh and it probably hits some sort
of dangerous artery.
JOHN: Yep.
MATT: You can reload and take another shot if you'd like. 
JOHN: Okay, let's do it. Yeah, absolutely.
MATT: Yeah, so you go ahead and you quickly load another bolt in, (ting), pull it back with your hand crossbow, fire a second time. Go ahead and roll.
JOHN: Eight.
MATT: Eight? Go ahead and roll a d20 one more time.
LAURA: Plus six, though, so that was fourteen was the final number.
MATT: Okay, well that still hits, then. But roll one more time just to see, just in case you get a—
JOHN: Two.
MATT: Okay, yeah, we'll go with the first one.
JOHN: First one.
[laughter]
MATT: So go ahead and roll damage again; roll a six-sided dice and then add two to it. 
JOHN: Yeah. Three, five. 
MATT: Five? That'll do it. So the second shot this time sinks into what looks to be the kind of lower torso area, and as it pierces in, a bunch of blood just begins to pool out the side, and the orc that was once coughing and violently kind of vomiting to the side just starts convulsing, and then goes still within the cloud.
LAURA: Oh, god.
MATT: Okay, so he's dead. So, what are you guys doing? 
LIAM: I'm up. I look for the nearest puker, I'm going to pull out flametongue dagger by the pommel, flip it into the blade in my hand, steady my hand on my sister's shoulder, and then and then thwip it at the first guy I see vomiting.
MATT: Go for it. 
LIAM: Okay, that is 24. 
MATT: Yeah, that'll hit. 
LIAM: Okay, so that is four plus six is ten and the sneak attack damage is—ooh—
LAURA: Whoa.
LIAM: —is 26. 
MATT: That first dagger just goes straight into the front of its face between the eyes and you watch as they kind of cross in the middle of it, coughing "(cough sound)" and the air just escapes from its lungs, no longer moving. 
LAURA: He'll take care of this.
DAN: He makes it look so easy!
LAURA: It's okay, Dupont Dupont. 
JESSICA: (pained) It's real easy, guys.
LAURA: Oh, you're still hurt. I'm really sorry about that.
JESSICA: I'm really, really hurt over here.
DAN: Dietrich, can you heal me?
[laughter]
MATT: All right, so you still have—you have two orcs that are incapacitated in the cloud, you can hear echoing distant sounds of other orcs coming. What are you doing right now? 
LAURA: I'm gonna let them take care of the extra orcs because they did such a good job of the vomiting ones, and I'm
gonna go cast Cure Wounds on you.
MATT: Okay, so you guys are staying put, and you're waiting for the orcs to come to you?
LAURA: Oh shit, are we?
DAN: I think we should—
LAURA: We should run. 
JOHN: We should—
LIAM: Are they right on top of us?
MATT: No, no, you just hear them in the distance.
LAURA: Oh! We should run then. But I'm still going to cure you.
JESSICA: Okay, sweet.
DAN: Let's make our escape. You've got hit points, you'll last.
JESSICA: I got nine! [laughs]
LAURA: I forgot I need to keep track of how many spells I'm doing. 
DAN: Look, I'll take care of... Pretty Boy Henry?
JESSICA: [laughing] Yeah, Pretty Boy Henry, PBH. Don't say his name out loud.
DAN: I will solve this riddle.
JESSICA: Don't say his name out loud or he'll disappear!
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: All right, so who's leading the charge out of the tent? 
DAN: I will. 
MATT: And as Dupont Dupont struts outside of the tent, just on the outskirts of the green cloud that only probably has—it lasts for a minute, I believe?
LAURA: That's four hit points. That's it.
JESSICA: I'll take it.
JOHN: Yeah yeah yeah. Yep.
JESSICA: I'll take it.
MATT: Okay, so you have about, at this point, 30 or so seconds before the cloud dissipates and they get back up, so you make haste to follow Dupont and begin charging down— You watch this this chamber you're in, it's kind of like a kidney bean shape and has one egress that goes into a larger tunnel kind of cavern system. As you head to the right and left, to the left you can see what looks to be just a dark interior that goes into a series of other tunnels with bits of flickering bonfire light further in; to the right you can see what looks to be five or six tents clustered on one side and the other side looks to be a giant iron cage and a glimmer of daylight.
LAURA: (gasps)
MATT: So what are you guys doing? 
LIAM: What are you doing, Dupont?
DAN: I think we should investigate these tents. There might be coin inside and—
LAURA: There could be other prisoners inside.
DAN: —we can split that once we get to the daylight.
LAURA: There could be other prisoners inside though.
DAN: Yes, the other prisoners. That's what I meant to say. [laughter]
LIAM: You want to—you want you and I creep in?
DAN: Yes.
LIAM: Ahead of the group?
DAN: Let's commence with the creep.
LIAM: Creeping.
MATT: All right, so both of you guys are creeping forward? What are the rest of you doing? Are you following them or staying behind?
LAURA: Do you want to stay outside the tents? 
JOHN: I'm, yeah, I'm gonna hang ever so slightly back. 
LAURA: Yeah. 
JOHN: Just in case they do get rushed. 
LAURA: Yeah, I'll stand next to you in the shadows, how about that? 
JOHN: Okay, perfect.
LAURA: Yeah 
MATT: Okay, so then I'm gonna have all of you guys roll stealth checks, just make sure you can stay out of sight.
DAN: A classic overwatch position, I love it!
[Applause] 
DAN: Oh, that's a natural 20.
MATT: There you go.
JESSICA: Oh, whoops, I'm glad I rolled the wrong dice.
DAN: The curse is broken!
JESSICA: 16. 
MATT: 16 plus... zero. So 16 stealth.
JOHN: 21.
MATT: 21, nice! 
LIAM: Nice, 21. 
LAURA: 11. 
MATT: 11, ooh, okay.
DAN: 30.
MATT: So all of you get really low into the shadows following the outer crevices of the cavern and begin slowly moving forward as you hear in the distance, "(Orc language shouts)". And you watch as seven orcs go rushing by with weapons drawn, some with what looks like a nasty looking, gnarled longbow, others wielding large greatswords again. And they all seven rush past and go ahead into the the area where you were, where the cloud is now dissipating. However, one of them kind of stops and glances over his shoulder and looks right towards you Vex'ahlia, apparently catching his eye. You shoot right back immediately? Go for it.
LAURA: At his throat.
MATT: Okay. 
LAURA: Okay. Oh good, that hit. Well, hopefully. 26?
MATT: 26 hits, yeah.
LAURA: Okay. 
MATT: Anyone else jumping into this, this immediate "oh god" moment? 
LAURA: I'm gonna use a lightning arrow on him. 
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: As soon as I see her go, I just aim for the same head—
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: —with Flametongue. 
DAN: One of you push Hubris out of the shadows.
LIAM: Ohh. I'll use my second Luck of the night.
LAURA: 2d8 plus five. Nine plus...
MATT: Hubris goes right next to you, goes like, "Wait, what did you say?" 
DAN: I was talking about someone else. I meant the concept, not you.
MATT: "I get that a lot."
LIAM: 11 plus 9 is 20.
MATT: 20 points of lightning damage. As soon as he turns around and goes, "(grunt)" and goes to swing his large greatsword arc towards you, you guys watch as Vex'ahlia pulls an arrow back and releases it. The arrow shaft suddenly bursts with a bolt of electricity, like a tiny lightning bolt, slams into his chest. "(convulsing sound)" It falls to the ground, convulses, and goes silent with a sizzle in a small stream of smoke from his chest. However, the shaking convulsing sound did give out kind of a loud yell, and you see two of the orcs that were rushing away turn around and like, "(snarl)".
LAURA: Shit, I thought it would be stealthy, I'm sorry. 
MATT: Yeah, Hubris, who was like holding onto Dupont's shoulder is like, "I think they saw us. What do we do? What are we doing, guys?"
LAURA: Ahhh!
DAN: Are they are they within our eyeshot, the other orcs?
MATT: Yeah, they ran past you and then three of them stopped and turned towards you. You guys are between them and the light on the opposite side. 
DAN: Can they see all of us now, or do they just see that the—
LAURA: Do they just see me?
MATT: They've only seen you, because you've only revealed yourself now.
DAN: I'd like to shoot my crossbow at one of them.
MATT: At one of them? Go for it.
DAN: Because I'm very stealth trained.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: I'd like to insight check Hubris.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Beause I got a bad feeling.
MATT: Roll an insight check.
DAN: Fine, nothing bad happens with Hubris.
LAURA: Things are attacking us right now. 
LIAM: I'm doing it. 16. 
MATT: 16. I mean, he seems like a pretty shady fellow, but at the moment he seems more interested in self-preservation, so you're not terribly worried about him at the moment. 
DAN: Name one bad thing that Hubris has ever caused. 
[laughter]
MATT: What did you want to do, Mankum?
JOHN: So Vex'ahlia is the only one of us that can really be seen at the moment? We're all still stealthy?
MATT: Yeah.
JOHN: Okay, well. Can I give her invisibility? 
MATT: You can, yeah. 
JOHN: Can I touch her and give her invisibility? 
MATT: Yeah, you will turn—you will come out of stealth, but if you cast it at a higher level—
JOHN: Yeah.
MATT: —you can turn both you and her invisible.
LAURA: (gasps)
JOHN: Oh, that's perfect. Yeah, can I do that?
LAURA: Tight.
MATT: Okay so you use your last third-level spell for the day—
JOHN: Yeah.
MATT: —and suddenly you and Vex'ahlia both (sound effect) vanish from sight. And the three orcs that turn go "(Orc language frustrated sounds)"
JOHN: Yeah?
MATT: And begin like stalking through the cavern, lifting over rocks and throwing over pieces of matted fur, looking for wherever you went.
JOHN: Yeah. Meanwhile, we're going to be invisibly going around making noises, confusing these guys. Confusing—
LAURA: Yes.
JOHN: Giving them noises to follow away from the light, so that while they're moving away from the light to try and find those that are invisible, these guys can go toward the light. We can then follow them out.
MATT: That's great, okay.
LAURA: That's brilliant! 
DAN: Amazing!
MATT: So the two of you begin to make your way kind of along the sides of the orcs as they begin rushing inward to search for them. Picking up small stones and throwing them deeper into the cavern. You hear as they clatter and all of a sudden the three perk up. "(Orc language commands)" And they, two of them start rushing off in that direction while he kind of starts stalking forward a bit. So he's alone and you guys begin to move just past him. I'm gonna need all of you to make one more stealth check to see if you can go by unnoticed by this fella.
LAURA: Oh my gosh, oh gosh, oh gosh. Ohhh...
MATT: You guys are invisible, have advantage, however.
LAURA: Oh, we have advantage?!
MATT: The guys who are invisible have advantage.
JOHN: Oh, okay.
LAURA: Oh, thank god we can roll again, because that would have been so bad.
JOHN: That was a bad one.
DAN: Yes. Super glad we're all invisible. All of us.
JOHN: Aw, it's the same number.
MATT: Okay. You're still invisible, so he doesn't see you, but he finds the scent.
JOHN: Okay.
MATT: All right, so what'd you get?
JESSICA: I got a six. 
LIAM: Using my second of three Lucks, I got a natural 20. 
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Ooh. 14. 
MATT: All right.
DAN: With my modifier, I got a 12. 
MATT: Okay. So while while you've managed to take two of them out of the equation, one of them—
LAURA: Shit.
MATT: —that's still wandering forward seems to start picking up the hint of footfalls, and as you guys all begin to run towards the entrance he gives chase. He hasn't caught up to you, and you guys are just running out at this point, but at this point to go full sprints to try and outrun him you're gonna have to drop stealth. You guys would remain invisible, but...
LIAM: Can I stop running and then slink up against a tent and let him pass me and then stick him from behind?
MATT: You may. So you've kind of dart off to the side behind one of the tents, at which point you also hear the clanging of metal, chains being dragged, but sourceless; you're not quite sure where it's coming. All right, so you're waiting there, the orc runs past. The rest of you guys, what are you doing?
DAN: Can I break stealth to give him advantage on that, like sort of distract? 
LIAM: I'm already pretty advantaged. 
MATT: Yeah if you want to, yeah. You kind of, you weren't stealthed to begin with; you thought you were—[laughter]—so you you go from unstealthed to being super unstealthed and kind of waving your hands, going, "Hey! Hey!" The guy there suddenly turns and yells out, "Chieftain! Release!"
DAN: I regret this immediately. 
JESSICA: Ah, dang it!
LAURA: Oh no, he called out for the chief?
JESSICA: I know. Yes, we're—
LAURA: We gotta run.
JESSICA: Damn it, Dan!
MATT: At this point the chain locks and you watch the iron cage that was on the right side of the cavern has now, the front of it (toppling sound) slams down. The cage, which was about 15 feet tall, you now see come running out, furious and angry, a creature emitting a roar that is familiar. You heard it before you were knocked unconscious in the first raid. 
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: You see shackles on its arms, the chains broken, a 15-foot-tall, muscular behemoth of a man, his muscles rippling with strewn with scars, and looks like torture elements to its body. Leathers are strapped across its midsection. Its hair is tattered and long, and slick with sweat and oil. And you see in the center of its face, above its nose, a singular eye, as it reaches down and grabs this large, thick, looks like a log or some sort of a sitting implement that was near one of the fires, and wields it as a club. (slamming noises) "(roar)" The orc that you distracted backs up and goes "(Orc language)", and just darts back with the other orcs and now it's you guys standing in the
middle of this section with a large cyclops there right before you. Everyone roll initiative once more.
LAURA: Oh god, wait, is the door to the the cavern closed now, or is it still open?
MATT: You still see the light ahead of you, but now the cyclops is stepping in the way. 
JESSICA: I am hauling ass.
LAURA: Oh god, okay, okay, okay.
JESSICA: Aw, jeez.
MATT: All right, so, ahaha. All right, so for order on combat here, what'd you get for initiative? 
JESSICA: I got a seven.
MATT: A seven, okay.
JESSICA: Yeah. Yeah.
MATT: All right. Mankum, what'd you get? 
JOHN: Oh, 17. 
MATT: 17, nice! Okay, so that brings us to Vax.
LIAM: 24.
MATT: 24, nice. 
LIAM: I'm hoping I'm still natural 20 stealth at this point.
LAURA: You're hoping.
LIAM: I'm hoping.
DAN: Don't worry, I'll distract them.
MATT: All righty.
LAURA: 17 as well.
MATT: 17 as well, all righty. So we have Vex and Mankum in the same turn. 
DAN: I'm the only [inaudible] here. I got an 11.
MATT: An 11?
DAN: Mm-hm.
MATT: All righty. And Hubris is last. 
DAN: Surprise, surprise.
MATT: All right, so this large, hulking cyclops that's now kind of stepping in between the path to exit of this cavern and where you're standing, "(roaring)" (slamming sounds). You see like with its large bellowing scream, bits of flesh and bile are kind of flung from its teeth and kind of spatter on the ground in front of it. Vax, you're up first.
LIAM: Okay, so I was just about to throw my dagger at that orc and I heard that and say, "Oh fuck me running." And I throw it at the cyclops instead.
MATT: Go for it.
LIAM: That is a 23. 
MATT: 23 hits.
LIAM: Okay, where the hell is it? That's right in front of me. This is seven...
MATT: Vex and Mankum, you guys are up next. 
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: At the same, actually. 
LAURA: Nice that we're invisible.
MATT: You are invisible.
LIAM: 13 total.
MATT: 13 points of damage with the first strike. So the dagger (stabbing sound) sticks into part of its torso. "(snarl)" And goes to knock the sword out of its chest, but it blinks back to your belt.
LIAM: I will use bonus action to fucking hide.
MATT: Okay, so you you dart around the back side of the tent to try and obscure your vision from it. Go ahead and roll stealth again.
LIAM: That's all right. That's a 24.
MATT: 24. Okay, so as far as you know, it doesn't see you. All right, that brings us to Vex'ahlia and Mancum. What are you guys doing?
JOHN: Yeah, we got a great idea.
LAURA: Yeah. 
JOHN: What we're gonna do, we're gonna get a length of rope that we've kept on our persons.
LAURA: Right. 
JOHN: We're gonna take an end each...
LAURA: ...and run it because we're still invisible. We're gonna run up and try and...
JOHN: Run up the shins and try and trip him. 
MATT: [laughs] That's pretty awesome. Okay, so both of you guys pulling the rope, which, it's interesting, as you clutch the rope and pull it out as it's being wielded by you, it's currently invisible. As you guys charge forward, you watch as the center of rope seems to appear out of nowhere, just a small like foot or two suspended and rushing forward. The cyclops does not see it. I need both of you guys to make athletics checks. 
LAURA: Oh god, oh god, okay. Athletics? Oh, no!
LIAM: Interesting.
DAN: Thank god he has no depth perception.
JESSICA: You can do this.
MATT: However, you have advantage because you are invisible and he doesn't see you there. 
LAURA: Thank god, okay.
JOHN: 18?
MATT: 18. 
LAURA: Oh no! I'm sorry, man! [laughter] Oh no, I got a 2!
[laughter]
MATT: With advantage?
LIAM: Oh no! With advantage.
MATT: All right, so here's the deal. You guys go rushing by, and the rope wraps around. You manage to get like a nice, sturdy pull, and as you tug, the cyclops kicks on one side just stepping forward instinctively to go towards whatever stabbed him with the dagger, and you get flung from the edge of the rope (sound effects) tumbling backward. 
LAURA: Augh!
MATT: You're still invisible, but you (impact sounds) skitter across the ground.
LAURA: Great.
MATT: You take three points of bludgeoning damage from the tumbling and impact.
LAURA: Oh, that was a fun idea.
MATT: The rope is still kind of wrapped around one of its legs and dangling.
LAURA: Oh good, maybe it's like a bolo, or, is that what it's called?
MATT: Yeah, but it didn't go around both legs because it kicked one off. However you still have the rope at your disposal. Anything else you want to do on your turn? You have a bonus action still if you wanted to like either inspire somebody or...
JOHN: Can I inspire Dupont?
MATT: Yeah. How do you want to inspire him?
JOHN: I want to inspire him to—what kind of condition is he in at the moment? 
MATT: Currently he looks... his ego's bruised but he looks physically all right. 
JOHN: Yeah, what are you doing there? C'mon.
DAN: Just trying—what am I doing?
JOHN: Yeah, come over and help.
DAN: I'm trying, I'm trying, I'm just slow to start sometimes.
MATT: All right, his voice is commanding for a small gnome and you feel yourself invigorated with "This guy has a plan, I'll follow suit." So give yourself a d8 inspiration die that you can spend to add to like an attack roll or a saving throw or—
DAN: Perfect.
MATT: —things like that. All right, cool, so that's the end of your turn, so mark off one of your inspirations there.
JOHN: Okay.
MATT: All right, that brings us next to the cyclops's turn. The cyclops—
LAURA: Wait, I'm gonna use my bonus ac— wait, if I cast anything, do I lose invisibility?
MATT: You do.
LAURA: Then never mind, I'm gonna just hang out on the ground like a loser.
DAN: Just gonna chill, take a quick nap.
LAURA: Yeah, nursing my bruised ego.
MATT: Okay. The cyclops is going to rush forward now. (heavy stomping sounds) You get dragged a bit behind it; the rope is pulling you forward but you're still holding on tight. As you come rushing towards it, it's going to make one greatclub attack against you as you're rushing in its direction and a second at Hubris, who's like behind you, going, "I don't know what I was about—oh god!" The attack towards you is, that's gonna be 24.
DAN: That's—that's a hit.
MATT: Okay, it's like being hit with a tree going at 50 miles an hour. That is 24 points of bludgeoning damage. 
DAN: But don't worry, I'm gonna uncannily dodge.
MATT: Okay, so you take half that damage.
LAURA: Oh, thank god.
LIAM: That's uncanny.
MATT: So you manage to try and whip out of the way in time, it still hits you in the shoulder and you spin and land on your knees, and get back up. It hurt, but it could have been a lot worse. We'll see how Hubris is—oh, he gets hit as well. Oh no. Okay, that's 21 points of bludgeoning damage, Hubris is still up, but not looking too hot right now. All right, so the two club smacks (whack, whack), and you just hear now cheers in the back, and you kind of glance over and you can see a bunch of the orcs towards the back of the cavern are now just watching like it's a gladiatorial event, and they're just like "(Orc language cheering)". They're excited to watch you guys get smashed by one of their captive entities. 
LIAM: Oh, we're in a rancor pit.
DAN: Yeah.
LAURA: Uh huh.
MATT: All right, that brings us to Dupont; it's your turn.
DAN: About time. "All right, let's see how you try this one on for size!" And I'm going to try and make a called shot with my crossbow to his eye.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: Ooh!
MATT: Go ahead and roll for an attack. It's with disadvantage.
DAN: All my attacks are with disadvantage. That's my secret. Well! (clears throat) Ten.
MATT: As... however, you can you can add your d8—
DAN: With inspiration! What did that gnome say to me? Yes: "Don't start, just don't stand there, do something!" 
MATT: All right so you're adding this to it.
DAN: Eight! That is an 18. 
MATT: That is an 18? 18 will actually hit.
[cheering]
DAN: Oh, I love that tiny man. 
MATT: So as you hear the words echoing through your mind, you take your crossbow up and then release a shot as the cyclops, after slamming down Hubris to the ground, gives a big roar "(roar)" (impact sound) and it like, this other hand lifts up and grabs on its face "(pained scream)" You see it trying to open the eye but like, the lids squint shut and a bit of blood begins to pool out the side. It's currently blinded for the next round.
LAURA: Yeah!
DAN: Excellent.
MATT: Go ahead and roll damage for the crossbow.
DAN: All right. 1d4? No, 1d6. Seven.
MATT: All right, seven points of damage to it. Dietrich, you're up.
JESSICA: Okay, I'm gonna cast Hunger. 
MATT: Okay, so the Hunger of Hadar. 
JESSICA: Yes, and I'm going to have my hentai tentacles hold him down and rip out his eyeball. 
DAN: Please, tentacles.
LAURA: What?
JESSICA: Make him more orifices, for that hentai. [laughs]
MATT: Okay, so as, you know, somewhat wounded, limping, you reach up and you watch as she extends her hand and begins speaking in an infernal language. Suddenly, this dark portal opens up behind the cyclops (sound effect) where you can see what looks like space—stars and wisps of galaxies—and then suddenly all these these black kind of tentacles kind of reach out and begin to strike across and scrape the body of the cyclops. You hear horrible slurping noises and whispers in the air "(hoarse whispers)" kind of filling the space; it's really disturbing. Okay, cool. So this area is open and it's currently standing there enveloped in this dark space.
JESSICA: All right.
MATT: So on its next turn it'll be affected by it.
JESSICA: Gotcha.
MATT: But you've started this effect there now.
JESSICA: Okay.
MATT: Oh god, that's—yeah, oh man, he's gonna have a rough turn, and is blinded. Blinded and absorbed by terrible things.
JESSICA: Sweet.
MATT: All right, cool, that ends your turn. That brings us to Hubris. Hubris is going to go ahead and stand up, and, seeing this strange mixture of attacks, go, "Uh," grab one of the shortswords from one of the orcs that was killed earlier when you guys first rushed the cavern and charge forward and try and stab it in the abdomen.
JESSICA: 'Cause that's gonna do it.
MATT: And rolls an eleven. And just can't—"(exertion sound)" 
LAURA: Oh..
MATT: "Aptly named, I suppose." [laughter] All righty, ending his turn. We're back at the top of the round. 
LIAM: (in Hubris's voice) "Story of my life."
MATT: Vax'ildan, you're up.
LIAM: Oh, pop up. (makes swishing sound) I'll just throw it again.
MATT: Okay. 
LIAM: Right where I am, I'm not going to put myself in danger.
MATT: You have advantage on the attack roll because he is blinded. 
LIAM: Yeah. That is a 17.
MATT: 17 does hit. Go ahead and roll damage. 
LIAM: All right. He takes 10, 13, 17, 19 total.
MATT: 19 points of damage, nice. 
LIAM: And I will pop right the hell back to where I was and hide.
MATT: All right, start back and then make your stealth check.
LIAM: 25. 
MATT: You get the sense that with his bleeding eye he can't see right now.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: You feel pretty well hidden. 
LIAM: Good. 
MATT: All right, so we have Mankum and Vex'ahlia. What do you guys want to do? 
JOHN: What do you think?
LAURA: You go first. I just failed miserably at the last thing we did, so...
JOHN: This crowd... there's there's a watching crowd, right?
MATT: Yeah.
JOHN: Is there anything I can do with them? Is there any kind of persuasive elements I could do with them?
MATT: Possibly. I mean, if you—they're all rowdy and like, ready to see a fight. They're ready to turn like a bar room brawl at any minute, so yeah, if you have any spells that you think might push in that direction or any abilities to try and mess with them, what do you want to try?
JOHN: Well, if I can plant mind control at all, I can persuade them to get us out of there, right?
MATT: Well, with whisper you can tell one of them to do something and it'll go and take that action, so one of them you could affect with the Suggestion spell. 
JOHN: Oh. can I do that? 
MATT: Yeah, what do you want to try and convince him to do?
JOHN: Try to convince him to see our side of the story, please.
MATT: [chuckles] Okay, okay. So as you look back at the group, you find one of the burliest orcs there that's like "(Orc language cheering)", and you give him suggestions. So what do you suggest to him? 
JOHN: "Think on yourself. Look at this guy, the cyclops. He's not in a good state. Who are the good guys here? Who look like the good guys? It's not him, is it? It's not even the rest of these guys." He's [inaudible] it. "Think, think, think. Look deep into yourself. Look deep into these eyes; look deep into these piercing blue eyes, and tell me that I don't look like a good guy." 
MATT: His face lingers on you for a second. He goes, "Wait, jeez, this is a nice gnome. Don't fight the gnome!" Another orc is like, "Oh shut up Gurash [sp?]." 
JOHN: No, no, no, listen to him. 
MATT: (as orc) "No, no. This, we need to talk about this diplomatically." And the other guy's: "Diplomatically? Shut up!" and socks him in the face. (impact noise)
JOHN: Perfect. 
MATT: "Oh you son of a b—" and grabs him by the shoulders and headbutts him. 
JOHN: Yeah.
MATT: And now you watch as these two orcs start fighting and they start gathering around their own circle in the corner
going "(orc cheers)" and they start pulling out blades and trying to shiv each other and now you've created this—
JOHN: Yeah, getting them to do the job for us. 
MATT: Yeah you've created a small bar— like a serious kind of one-on-one kind of arena match there in their crowd. 
JOHN: These guys are so highly strung. [laughter] They've been seconds away from this; they just need a little irritant and they're going to be at each other. So perfect.
MATT: Awesome. So while you're finishing that, Vex'ahlia, what are you doing?
LAURA: I am going to stand up and shoot the cyclops as well, aiming for his jugular.
MATT: Okay, roll for an attack.
LAURA: With my... yes.
MATT: With advantage, because he's blinded currently.
LAURA: Gosh darn it, I don't like that dice anymore.
MATT: What was the roll on that one?
LAURA: It was two.
MATT: Oh yeah.
LAURA: But this one is much better.
DAN: [laughs]
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: So this is my sharpshooter arrow with a jugular, so that's a 20 to hit.
MATT: That hits. 
LAURA: Okay, good.
MATT: So yeah, you're plus 10 to damage on this one.
LAURA: Plus 15 to damage. That's 20 with a sharpshooter.
MATT: 20 points of damage, nice. 
LIAM: ("shunk" sound of arrow impact)
JESSICA: Damn!
MATT: So this time, as he's kind of reeling back, you see like the darkness kind of curling over the shoulders, going (slurping sounds). The head pulls up (struggling sound) and you see a perfect shot, you release the arrow and (impact sound) it sinks in. He's like "(coughing sounds)", and begins coughing and gurgling this kind of thick, bloody, kind of blackish, brackish blood from its throat. Still standing and still furious. 
LAURA: I'm gonna just hit him again because that's what I can do. Ooh, natural 20! 
MATT: That'll do it. So go ahead and roll damage on that.
LAURA: Double my dice?
MATT: Yep.
LAURA: 12 plus 5 is 17.
MATT: 17 points of damage. As soon as he like, "(throaty sounds)" begins gurgling, he picks up his giant club-like log and as he begins to swing it over his head, you shoot him in the belly, and "(pained sound from impact)". It leans forward again, it's looking visibly hurt, but it's also looking like it's going into a full furious frenzy.
LAURA: Oh god, shit. I'm going to use the rest of my movement to try to move towards the opening.
MATT: Okay, so you're moving around the outside of this radius. 
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Okay, good to know. Ending that, it's its turn. It swings out, hearing you rush by. It's going to take a swing for you, Vex'ahlia, with its club. That's with a disadvantage; that is still a 19. What's your armor class?
LAURA: Oh no, it hits me.
MATT: It hits you? Okay, so that is 26 points of bludgeoning damage.
LAURA: Oh! That does a lot of damage.
MATT: Whack! It hits you from one side and then it spins around for another strike once it feels contact, because that's the only thing that it knows is in the area because it can't see, and it's going to go for you again. 
LIAM: Oh my gosh.
JESSICA and LAURA: Oh no! 
JESSICA: What did you do?! 
LAURA: I don't know! I'm gonna die, you guys! 
MATT: A 19 again.
[cries of dismay]
LAURA: I felt so good about myself with my critical hit.
MATT: 25 points of bludgeoning damage.
LIAM: Oh, she's down!
LAURA: Oh jeez, I am so unconscious.
MATT: So you watch as she rushes past after getting a nice big hit and kind of looks over at you and gives you like a "Come on!" As soon as she turns around to spin, whack! Gets hit by the club, one side knocking her up in the air about five or six feet, and before she can land, it swings back again. (swinging sound) Her body crumples in mid-air and skids across the ground towards the light. (impact sounds) Coming to the stop, not moving.
JESSICA: At least you're closer to the exit.
LIAM: We have to save you, or the space-time continuum will collapse in on itself! [laughter]
MATT: Dupont, it's your turn.
DAN: So I have a healing potion. Would that get her up to snuff? 
LIAM: Yep.
MATT: It would, but it'll take your whole turn to just get it to her and feed it to her.
LAURA: Oh no.
DAN: I'm gonna do it. 
LIAM: Nah.
LAURA: Dupont?
JESSICA: Aww!
DAN: I'm going to give her a healing potion. 
LIAM: Dupes.
MATT: Okay.
JOHN: How sweet.
JESSICA: So sweet.
MATT: So, you rush past. (footstep sounds) It hears you moving past, and you— it kind of takes a big swing in the direction of where you are as an attack of opportunity, with disadvantage. That is a—six plus nine—that is a 15. What's your armor class?
DAN: 16, bitch!
MATT: 16! As you're rushing forward, the potion in hand, you hear (whoosh) of the wind whooshing, and you duck down as it passes just over you by inches. (whoosh) That was close. You go over and grab her unconscious body, uncork the potion, apply it to her, and you watch as her eyes flicker open, back to consciousness. Go roll 2d4 plus 2 to heal up on that one. 
LAURA: 2d4 plus what?
MATT: Two. 
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: You're up. 
JESSICA: Ah. Well, so, what's happening with the Hunger of Hadar? 
LAURA: Nine points.
JESSICA: Is he still dealing with that, or is that—
MATT: Actually yeah, sorry, thank you for reminding me of that. At the top of his turn he takes ten points—
LAURA: Ooh.
DAN: Ten hentai damage.
MATT: —of cold damage as they're like wrapping around him and scathing his body. And at the end of his turn, because he doesn't move—
LIAM: Lord knows where that went in.
MATT: —he takes another nine points of acid damage. So you watch as this like void is trying to pull the cyclops in, and as it's doing, its body's being torn and burned, and it's "(pained shouts)". It's looking really, really badly hurt currently. So what are you doing on your turn? 
JESSICA: Can I hit him with a Hex and then follow it up by with an Agonizing Blast?
MATT: If you hit him with it with a Hex, you're going to lose the the void spell.
JESSICA: Oh.
MATT: Because you have to concentrate to keep it there. But you can do Eldritch Blast without dropping it. 
JESSICA: All right, well then let's do that. 
MATT: All right, go ahead, do a roll to attack him twice. You have advantage because he's, well, he's no longer blinded actually, so you just—
JESSICA: Ooh, 20!
[cheering]
MATT: All right, so roll a d10. That's times two on that. 
JESSICA: One!
MATT: So it's two plus four, that's six points of damage. And then roll another attack, is it with your second blast against it.
JESSICA: Ten.
MATT: Ten plus... eight, that hits.
JESSICA: For... yeah. 
MATT: So roll damage on that one more time for the second blast.
JESSICA: Come on.
LAURA: Come on, big ten! 
[simultaneously] JESSICA: God— / LIAM: Yeah! MATT: Ten!
JESSICA: Oh, that's ten. Sweet!
[laughter]
MATT: You're good, you're good. 
MATT: That's 14 points of damage—
LIAM: I got the zero. 
DAN: Zero one!
MATT: As you blast it, you watch as the the first hit hits one arm and part of the muscle gets torn open. "(pained sound)" It drops the club and as it spins around it tries to backhand whatever direction you are. 
JESSICA: Son of a B—
MATT: You step out of the way—
JESSICA: Oh good.
MATT: And with a secondary blast from your hand it smacks it right in the spot where your arrowhead hit. (tearing sound) The throat tears open and begins to pour blood, and you watch as it reaches up and "(gasping)" grasps it, at which point the tentacles grab its body and begin to pull it into the void.
JESSICA: Eat it!
MATT: His body gets slowly crushed in like a small singularity. (sounds of struggle against being crushed) Disappears in the darkness, the portal (implosion sound). 
[cheers and applause]
MATT: However, the orcs are still fighting behind you and starting to get rowdy. What are you guys doing?
DAN: Let's—
JESSICA: Well, I feel like I did my job, folks.
LIAM: And the gate's down? That big gate? 
LAURA: It's up.
MATT: Ah, well, there was a cage that was holding the cyclops.
LIAM: Oh.
MATT: The entrance is still open.
LAURA: Okay.
JOHN: Oh, well, they're distracted, right? 
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Because they're now fighting with themselves.
LIAM: Yes.
DAN: Let's—
LAURA: Run!
DAN: —book it.
LAURA: And I'm just shouting, "Trinket! Trinket!", as we're running towards the door. 
MATT: As you're rushing towards the door, you guys see that with a chain around its neck, Trinket, your bear, is currently now over to the side with its chain jammed into the ground with a giant metal pike.
LAURA: (gasp) I just take off right—instead of going to the entrance, I run over to Trinket, try to get him out.
MATT: Okay, you go over and make a strength check to try and pull the pike out of the ground.
LAURA: Oh god, I'm so weak! No, no, no. Okay... with advantage or not?
MATT: No.
LAURA: It's just a plain old—
LIAM: What if I run over—
LAURA: —just a plain old four then.
LIAM: —and start pulling on her waist? What if I run over and start pulling on her waist to double the effort?
MATT: All right, so you roll as well.
LIAM: All right.
MATT: As you guys are rushing towards the entrance, she goes over to try and save her bear and— 
LIAM: Oh, I got one last Luck.
MATT: Use it. 
LAURA: Oh no, we suck! 
DAN: What if I run over and pull on his waist?
[laughter]
MATT: So now we have a waist chain. Roll a strength check.
LIAM: Human centipede.
DAN: 11.
[laughter]
MATT: The three of you are now pulling on this spike jammed in the ground. Now this bear's like, "(impatient, judgy moaning)". [laughter] There something you want to try and do to help out with the escape of the bear? 
JOHN: Okay. Okay, yeah. Okay. While everybody's pulling away at this chain and this nail, the bear's getting aggravated,
the bear's thrashing around, the bear is distracting the fighting orcs over to where we're are, right? Make a lot of noise, growling? Oh, we don't want them to see us freeing this bear, right? So I'm going to use my amazing animal handling skill—
OTHER PLAYERS: Ohh!
JOHN: —to go in front of this bear to talk to the bear, to make eye contact with this bear, calm it down, you know what I mean? Don't, just don't make any of this noise. Don't [inaudible], just, we're going to get you free, we'll get you free. Just stay calm. They can't hear you making all this racket, all right?
MATT: [laughs] All right, go and make an handling check. 
JOHN: I'm going to use animal handling check. 13 in total.
MATT: 13, okay. So as Trinket at this point is kind of focused on kind of the din around and kind of looking about, freaking out, "(panicked bear noises)". As you're calming the bear down, "(calmer bear snuffles)". And then begins to pull against the chain with you, and kind of you kind of grab onto the side of the neck and the two of you begin tugging and tugging as the rest of them are pulling in the back of it. 
JESSICA: All right, can I do, as I'm running towards the exit, can I hit the nail that's got chain on it with a Blast? 
MATT: Sure, go ahead and roll an attack for that?
JESSICA: Okay. 
MATT: The dice is over here. 
JESSICA: Ope.
MATT: There you go.
JESSICA: Just to help because I do technically still feel, you know, like a good person. Got you a 20. 
MATT: A natural 20. 
OTHER PLAYERS: (happy sounds)
MATT: So with that, as you release—
DAN: She's a witch! [laughter]
MATT: —as you guys are pulling so hard, and the bear's like "(impatient bear noise)", she releases a single blast bolt that slams into the the metal pull that's jammed into the ground. (blast sound) It bursts off, you hear the metal bend.
DAN: We did it! [laughter]
MATT: The three of you immediately fall onto your backs in a small like heaving pile of breath. (heavy breathing)
JESSICA: Also, we're even now for the heal later.
LAURA: Definitely. Definitely. 
MATT: Trinket comes up and (grateful sounds)—
LIAM: Go team! (groan)
MATT: —licks your face.
LAURA: Good boy.
MATT: You look up to see this giant grizzly bear that just comes up, looks like about to eat her face off, and just licks the side of the cheek.
JOHN: Yeah.
MATT: The orcs are now starting to—
LAURA: Mankum, Trinket. Trinket, Mankum. 
MATT: (affectionate bear noise) The bear comes up, kind of nuzzles the side of your face, and you almost get knocked off your feet from just the force of this powerful creature. The orcs behind you now start kind of, "(grunt of suspicion) (Orc language shouts)". 
LIAM: Time to go.
LAURA: We need to run.
LIAM: Time to go.
MATT: You guys bolt back towards the entrance. the light is almost blinding as you come into daylight, and you jut out into this waist-high grass field and see a blue sky above you. It's a new day; you have your things on you. While the caravan may be a loss, you've your lives and whatever future you hope to build from this point forward as you live
another day, free, living people. Congratulations, well done.
[applause]
DAN: I'll be honest: I did not believe in us.
[laughter] 
LAURA: And we've got all these rings!
JOHN: Oh yeah.
MATT: You do. You guys got all blinged out.
JOHN: Blinged out. Absolutely blinged out.
JESSICA: Oh yeah! I forgot that you guys ran off with those. 
DAN: You guys— 
LAURA: And all this like, jewelry I've shoved in my pockets too. 
MATT: So made out not too bad, other than like, you know, many people that probably died in the caravan. You guys made out okay. 
DAN: Look, there'll be other caravans. People are a renewable resource!
[laughter]
MATT: Awesome. Thank you guys so much, thank you so much for playing with us to— 
JOHN: Oh no, thank you, I've had a lovely time. It was so much fun. Yeah, genuinely really enjoyed it; thank you so much for having me.
[Music]