List of Transcripts
MATT: Night after night, the visions come: sand and stone, teeth and blood. A relic long locked away by a zealot's hand. A golden wreath of many gemstones: ruby, sapphire, emerald, diamond, and onyx. Arkhan's dreams reveal these messages from his patron, his divine mistress—dreams that he believes reveal a holy imperative that she has gifted upon him. 
JOE: I am Joe Manganiello and I'm Arkhan the Cruel, the red dragonborn Oathbreaker paladin and worshiper of Tiamat.
[music]
JOE: I was a hired killer who joined a monastery to try to stop the drinking and killing and somewhere along the way I wound up breathing fire into a dark room, which turned out to be a group of unsuspecting sleeping goblin soldiers, and when I heard them screaming and running in flames, I'd never felt so alive in my life, and so started drinking and killing again, and worshiping five-headed dragon goddesses, and here we are.
MATT: There you have it.
MARISHA: It's very rock and roll.
JOE: It's just my life.
MATT: Arkhan, your research has brought you months of frustration, until you crossed paths with a knowing monk of the Cobalt Reserve named Duan. Extracting his understanding of ancient seals and forgotten artifacts of the gods, this gave you the name of the cavern that bears your mark: the Vault of Shumas within the Aggrad Mountains of Marquet. Knowing rumor of the dangers within, you've hired a small band of mercenaries to accompany you into the depths of this vault.
MATT: Jessica, would like to introduce your character?
JESSICA: I am the Headmistress, a level five human monk. My parents abandoned me at a monastery; I'm really bitter about it, super pissed actually, don't want to be here. I think all these bitches suck and I'm pretty much just out for things for myself.
TALIESIN: I'm Percival Fredrickstein von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III, the human gunslinger, and I'm out for a bit of inspiration, pre-stream, it's like an origins issue.
MARISHA: Hi, I'm Keyleth of the Air Ashari, doing a bit of a time jump back to when I was good ol' level five. I'd say Percy and I are taking a little bit of a vacation; it's a working vacation, but it's a vacation. And it's a little pre-stream adventure.
DAN: The name's Dupont Dupont, dwarven rogue. If there's coin to be had, I'll be there. You might know me as Mr. Steal Your Girl, but you should know me as Mr. Cut Your Purse.
MATT: After days of travel on the north side of the Marquet desert and entering the crag Aggrad Mountains, a few days of camping finally bring you to what the maps tell you is the entranceway to the Vault of Shumas. Now you're now standing in the unforgiving sun of the Marquet sky, cloudless and angry. Before you is the great, stone, sand-covered door of the Vault. There is no visible mechanism to open it.
DAN: Well this seems to be my area of expertise, being a dwarf. I'm going to investigate, being a rogue; I'm going to see if there's some sort of hidden mechanism.
MATT: All right go ahead and roll an investigation check.
(laughter)
DAN: Let's see, ten. A big ten. Come on low DC.
MARISHA: Double digits, what's up?
MATT: You push away some of the sand on the door, revealing a faint, detailed design carved across the entirety of its
surface. It resembles a mass of snakes knotting themselves together for feet and feet and feet until it reaches the
top of the mountain. Deep within the center of this mass is a single human face, male, screaming, and his mouth seems to be a small porthole of some kind about four inches across.
JESSICA: "Wow, this looks awfully familiar in my teachings at the monastery."
MATT: Mm.
MARISHA: "What kind of church did you go to?"
JESSICA: "Oh yeah, it's just you know... it's good to know a lot of things."
MARISHA: "Yeah."
JESSICA: Can I...
MATT: History?
JESSICA: Yeah, I'm trying to...
MATT: What are you trying to do?
JESSICA: I'm trying to... I'm trying to... I don't know really, but I'm trying to open the fucking door.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Does it look like some sort of keyhole or perhaps does it look more like an inset goes into it?
MATT: It's roughly about that big around.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: It looks like either something can be placed into it or pulled out of it; you're not entirely certain. You just now, thanks to Dupont Dupont, realize its existence.
DAN: It's a screaming snake face with a fist hole.
TALIESIN: This has got a very dangerous sort of Goonies vibe to it. "Dupont, you should put your fist inside, see what happens."
DAN: "All right."
(laughter)
JOE: That was easy. 
TALIESIN: "Don't, stop, that looks dangerous," he thought to himself.
(laughter)
JESSICA: "You sure you wanna do that?"  Can I roll a Wisdom to see if anything clicks in my mind where he shouldn't put his hand in there like maybe this is more of a magical–
MATT: Go ahead and roll an Investigation check.
DAN: What do they teach about snakes and face-holes at the academy?
(laughter)
TALIESIN: You should always put your fist in them.
JESSICA: Haha, it's shit, Dan, I'm sorry.  
(laughter)
MATT: As far as you're concerned, it's super safe.
DAN: Ah, your god smiles upon this!
JESSICA: You're fine, Dan.  You're fine.
JOE: "Does anyone have like a Detect Traps, anything? No?"
(laughter)
MARISHA: "You're the rogue."
DAN: "All right."
JOE: I just met you, so there's not that much emotionally invested for me.  I'm just trying to help you out.
[Cut away]
MATT: I have played with Joe before. He's—I didn't quite realize to an extent of how much of a Dungeons & Dragons
lineage he comes from. A lot of people I get a chance to play with who are, you know, in the industry are either relatively new or wanting to be introduced to it. He's from old stock. He's been doing this for a while so, no, we had an absolute great time with the first time we had a chance to play and this is just a continuation of that awesome experience.
[Back to table]
DAN: "Look, you're paying the bills here; you hired us. I'll detect for traps."
JOE: "Put your fist in the hole."
(laughter)
MATT: Go ahead and make an Investigation check.
JESSICA: Oh noes.
MARISHA: Oh geez, you guys.
DAN: High roller over here. Looking at a big old seven.
MATT: Currently it looks like this may be some sort of a mechanism to opening the door but it does not appear to be trapped. 
DAN: "Look, it seems safe to me; I'm going to thrust thusly." And I thrust.
MATT: As your hand reaches about six or seven inches into this small gap in the door, you find that there's a singular iron rod maybe an inch in width that seems to act almost like a handle.
MARISHA: Oh.
DAN: I'd like to pull.
MATT: All right. As you wrap your fingers around and give a firm tug on the metal rod, you hear a strange shifting metallic sound [SH sound effect], and a series of small needles suddenly protrude and impale your hand on the inside of this opening.
DAN: "Oh, betrayed!"
MATT: You take eight points of poison damage.
DAN: Oh no...
MATT: And I need you to make a Constitution saving throw.
DAN: All right where's my Constitution at.
JESSICA: This is the worst door ever.
TALIESIN: Boy, I've had enough [inaudible].
DAN: Wow, great at rolling these sevens, huh?  Seven plus my Constitution modifier?
MATT: Yeah.
DAN: Nine.
MATT: All right.  The immediate pain of the needles impaling into your hand—[pained sound]—it filters through your body and as you withdraw your hand as the needles retract, you guys hear the door suddenly [impact sound] shift and begin to open as it lifts its way across the mountain surface, revealing a darkened passage–
(laughter)
MATT: The venom does [pulse sound effect] pulse through your hand as you feel it begin to course through your system. You are currently poisoned.
DAN: But not like a cool Bane way?
MATT: No, not so much.
MARISHA: Can I do a Medicine check and see if I can ascertain if this is like a natural poison?
MATT: Sure, go ahead.
MARISHA: Is it a snake venom? I bet it's a snake venom. 
DAN: It's flying squirrel venom.
MARISHA: Oh, that's pretty good, that's pretty good.
TALIESIN: Thanks [inaudible]
MARISHA: What is my Medicine these days? 21. 
MATT: 21. Okay, as you guys begin to walk towards the entranceway to this dark interior with no light from beyond the bit of sunlight that cascades within, you check Dupont's hand and sure enough the venom itself is coursing through the hand and beginning to find its way through his bloodstream. It doesn't appear to be lethal, but it is somewhat debilitating.
MARISHA: Can I go ahead and immediately make like a rough tourniquet to kind of–
JOE: I hold her hands back, I grab his hand, and I use five points from my pool to stop the poison.
MARISHA: Ah, paladins!
MATT: You watch as the large red-scaled dragonborn rushes over—I say rush—casually strolls over in his armor, grabs
your pulsing, currently endangered hand and you watch as a sudden burst of divine warm energy kind of glows from
his claw. You feel as if a sudden series of snake bites hit your hand, almost matching the pain of the poison; however, these multitudes of tiny divine dragon mouths actually draw the venom out of your bloodstream and spit it onto the sand below before the energy dissipates. You are no longer poisoned. 
DAN: I prostrate myself before Tiamat.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: It's like you lose an extra foot of height there by getting on your knees.
JOE: "You'll become a true believer."
[Cut away]
JOE: I think, well, I was the only healer in the group. It's always tricky to get somebody who wants to play a cleric. That's always like a really specific thing. But I, yeah, so Dupont stuck his hand, he had to take one for the team and stick his hand in and grab the lever, and in doing so impaled himself with these poison needles that then poisoned his body and luckily having some you know healer ability healed him.
[Back to table]
TALIESIN: Quick, quick check, just because I'm curious: what kind—are there footprints in this hallway yet? Human or snake prints of any kind? 
MATT: Make an Investigation check.
TALIESIN: Well that's lovely. That's a 22.
MATT: 22. As your guys begin to make your way in, your human eyes unfortunately are not well adapted to the dark, lightless interior, so you can only really check the area immediately around the entrance right here, unless you have a torch or something–
DAN: "Did someone say darkvision?"
TALIESIN: "No, I said 'torch'." 
DAN: "Sorry, but the poison's addled me." 
TALIESIN: "I did say basic standard of hearing, which apparently is a problem."
MATT: You would have a torch on you. 
TALIESIN: Yeah, all right, I'll kind of take a look around I wanted to see anything that would open the door that wouldn't mind the venom; I'm just sort of curious if that was a trap or if that was a test.
MARISHA: Or maybe both.
TALIESIN: Maybe both.
MATT: Looking around, you find that there are a series of footprints that lead through here, most of them humanoid. One or two that appear to be rather large and a consistent groove. However, these tracks have been untouched for a very long time. This set of dust that has begun to accumulate on top of these places, and the atmosphere inside here, which the smell already is of dry rot and burnt dust as you enter. Appears the interior has not been touched in quite some time.
JOE: Okay, so we're inside and what—I mean, what exactly, like I guess, so we're under the door now? 
MATT: Yeah, you've moved underneath the door which is partially moved up to reveal about 10 feet of height to move within and on the inside you see a long natural rock cavern that is very smoothly chiseled on each side, about 25 foot wide, about 40 feet tall, and as you progress forward you can see a series of columns that line about every 20 or so feet, so the interior this does to be does appear to be intentionally crafted as some sort of a temple or a structure for living in worship.
JOE: Okay and there's nothing else inside of this room or this hallway, this chamber?
MATT: Not where you're standing now; if you wish to progress further...
JOE: Okay.
JESSICA: Can we check for writing or hieroglyphs or anything like that?
MATT: Sure, make a Perception check.
JESSICA: Yeah.
JOE: That's pretty good.
JESSICA: 23.
MATT: 23. All right. You begin to, as you guys move deeper and deeper down this dark hallway, you run your fingers along the wall, ever so carefully to make sure it's not applying too much pressure, but just feel the variations in the texture, and as you get close enough, the outskirts of Percival's torchlight, you gently brush off a bit of dust and see there are symbols. Not a long string, but singular glyph-like symbols that seem to be occasionally set throughout the hallway. What languages do you know?
JESSICA: I know Common and Elven.
MATT: Okay, you do not recognize the nature of these various symbols; that doesn't appear–
TALIESIN: "Have you found something, Headmistress?"
JESSICA: "Yes, I found some writing along the walls here, but unfortunately I don't know what it says."
TALIESIN: "Anyone?"
MARISHA: "Ooh, so pretty."
JOE: Yeah, I have Draconic.
DAN: I've got Dwarven.
MATT: You have Draconic.
TALIESIN: Celestial?
MATT: Celestial.
MARISHA: And Primordial.
MATT: Primordial.  Currently none of you are able to read this language.
TALIESIN: Damn.
MATT: It looks old, and the edges of the designs are very sharp. I want to say if you could go ahead and make a—
JESSICA: Wisdom?
MATT: ...History roll, actually.
JESSICA: History?
[Cut away]
JESSICA: You know, not even just Joe, but just Matt, I mean everybody, they're really good and you don't realize how good they are until you are playing with them in a group and then it becomes really apparent how bad you are and how good they are. I gotta admit I was extremely impressed and also very intimidated to keep up.
[Back to table]
JESSICA: Oh, geez, two. 
DAN: "It's all Common to me."
JESSICA: Obviously I didn't study well at school.
MATT: It's—you're finding it difficult to ascertain the nature of this language directly, but it does appear to be very old.
JESSICA: Well, shit.
JOE: Anybody else good at history? It's really not my forte.
MARISHA: It's not mine either.
TALIESIN: I'll give a roll, since I'm a reader. Where's my new History? I think 23.
MATT: 23, not bad. Okay, so looking at it and from your knowledge of Celestial, it lets—it gives you the inclination
because there are similar elements of these symbols, though a bit twisted and reversed. This is—
TALIESIN: Ah, it's Abyssal, isn't it? 
MATT: ...it's Abyssal, yeah.
MARISHA: "Oh. Oh!"
(laughter)
TALIESIN: "What do we know about this place?"
JESSICA: "Nothing!"
MARISHA: "Arkhan?"
TALIESIN: "This is a little—Arkhan, this is possibly more than we bargained for."
MARISHA: "Do you have any idea or have you done research before you brought us here?"
JOE: "I don't read so much."
MARISHA: "Oh!"
JOE: Yeah, what do I know about this place? 
MATT: From what you've researched, this vault acted as a religious sanctum for an ancient civilization that existed right at the beginning of the Age of Arcanum. However the individuals that originally lived within here were systematically slaughtered by an incursion, another religious force that since closed and locked the vault off.
JOE: Hm.
MATT: This happened right before a great war called the Calamity or the Divergence. And since then, nobody really knows what resides within, and the only thing that's drawn you to this location are the visions you've had.  You've seen the mountainscape, you've seen the hot desert sun, you've seen symbols that are similar to the glyphs you've seen on the wall here and the doorway that you came through. So you know you're at the right place, but as to the actual nature of the interior you're kind of in the same place as the rest of your party.
JOE: Okay, and it's a 25 feet wide-ish–
MATT: Uh,huh, about 20, 25 foot wide for the current tunnel.
JOE: Okay, and how far can we see down the tunnel? He has, like what, 60 foot–
DAN: I have darkvision out to 60 feet.
MARISHA: Darkvision as well.
MATT: ...60 feet. So as you guys progress forward–
TALIESIN: I think the humans will stand back with a torch. 
JESSICA: Yeah, I'm hanging out with you.
MARISHA: Me and Dupont, we'll take the lead.
DAN: We'll just stare as hard as we can.
TALIESIN: Thank you Care Bears. 
(laughter)
MATT: As you progress past these rows of cracked pillars, deeper, deeper into the darkness–
MARISHA: We're stealthy, by the way.
MATT: Are you guys going stealthy? Okay, I want you guys to both roll Stealth then.
DAN: Oh no!
MARISHA: Oh Dan, what did you–oh no.
TALIESIN: What did you do, Dan?
DAN: With my modifier, it's an 11.
TALIESIN: Is it though?
DAN: It's a one.
MATT: Natural one.
MARISHA: I rolled a 16.
MATT: Okay. Well, as you carefully move forward you watch as—which, by the way, a number of these pillars you can see are like cracked, a few have fallen just through, whether it be localized seismic activity or just general erosion over time. Some of these interior elements that were crafted have fallen. You notice this as Dupont, looking ahead, has not realized that a large cluster of this broken marble, or sandstone-like substance smacks him in the shin with a single step [breathy exclamation] and he tumbles over onto the ground with a loud yelp.
TALIESIN: We're gonna need a yelp.
DAN: "AH!"
(laughter)
DAN: That's my dwarven yelp.
TALIESIN: That was definitely a dwarven yelp.
DAN: Yeah.
MARISHA: Keyleth turns around really fast in panic.
TALIESIN: "Oh for god's sakes."
DAN: "All clear."
MARISHA: "Did you see something?" 
DAN: "No." 
MARISHA: "What did you see?"
DAN: "It was a stealth maneuver. Recovered." [clears throat] "As you were. Shh."
MARISHA: "Shh."
MATT: You both quietly–
JESSICA: I look at you like "what the fuck is happening". 
JOE: I just start shaking my head.
TALIESIN: "The hired dwarf, I believe, was just accosted by a rock."
MATT: As you guys continue–
DAN: "I have a natural inclination towards stone."
(laughter)
DAN: "I'm drawn to it."
TALIESIN: "I don't need to know about your personal life. That's a bit distressing." It's Mr. Dupont.
MATT: Progressing forward an additional 100 or so feet into this tunnel you begin to descend into a small decline where you see a faint hint of light ahead. It appears to be sunlight in coloration: it's warm, yellow-white, and just barely touching the floor as it appears that this incline evens out to a lower level.
MARISHA: Is the ceiling getting higher? 
MATT: The ceiling appears to be rather consistent at this point in time; it's still about 40 feet high.
TALIESIN: "All right, this is making me nervous."
MARISHA: Can I do like a Nature check to try and discern how far underground we are?
MATT: Sure.
MARISHA: Why would we be seeing sunlight? That's not great.
TALIESIN: That's not–
MARISHA: 11. 
MATT: You've only progressed a few hundred feet and knowing at least the angle the mountain was in, you're the equivalent of maybe five to six hundred feet below the surface. However, where this alleyway would or this pathway would stop and the chamber where this light seems to be coming through would be close to probably a thousand feet beneath the mountain surface.
JOE: Okay.
MARISHA: So probably not natural sunlight.
JOE: Nope.
MATT: Uh-uh.
MARISHA: Good to know.
JOE: All right, I'd like to check for secret doors.
[Cut away]
MARISHA: Playing with Joe was awesome.  He came prepared with his own dice and his own dice box and he had stories for each
one and it's just, you gotta love playing with those old school guys and they, like, always get into it immediately. Yeah, he was great. And I mean, he's welcome at my table anytime.
[Back to table]
MATT: Go for it. 
JOE: Okay.
MATT: Make an Investigation check.
JOE: Hey. Six.
MATT: Okay.
JOE: Not so good. (laughter) But not a one.
TALIESIN: I think you figured out how to open a pocket on your belt.
MATT: As your "stealthy" duo progress forward–
DAN: "...this bag of Sun Chips."
(laughter)
MATT: Arkhan, the dragonborn paladin, steps forward and begins to run his hand along the wall similar to the ways the monk was doing earlier, keeping a watch for something that might click in or resemble an entrance to some other avenue. Nothing seems to find your grasp as your gauntleted fingers kind of scrape across the stone surface.  However you eventually catch up to these two, who are slowly progressing as you reach the bottom of this decline and see the interior of the next chamber. What you now see is a rectangular chamber about 80 foot by 80 foot wide, or 80 by 100 feet in length, and it's lit by a soft yellow glow universally within this chamber. A wide stone about five foot in diameter appears to be set into the central ceiling portion of this chamber with three pillars in a triangular form around the surface of the ceiling that then come to the bottom hitting the floor of the chamber. Two of them appear to be relatively damaged and you get the sense from some of the impacts here that perhaps the battle of the original incursion that took this temple did take a bit of a toll on a number of the bits of architecture.
MARISHA: Hm.
MATT: There are also at the base of these pillars three obelisks about eight feet tall, just smooth, no discerning symbols or markings that jut out of the ground at kind of various angles at the base of each of these pillars. In between the three of them, right at the center of where this stone is set in the ceiling, you see what appears to be a small quartz altar about three feet high from the floor. There are three small concave indentations carved into the surface of this altar with one of them, the one that's furthest away from you, being roughly twice the size of the other two.
[Cut away]
JESSICA: That was probably my most memorable moment other than just watching Mercer do his DMing because he's so ridiculously talented. I mean, it's just stupid how good he is.
[Back to table]
TALIESIN: Fascinating.
DAN: Does–you said there's a sort of stone hanging from the ceiling?
MATT: There's a five-foot-wide kind of somewhat oval stone that is embedded in the ceiling that appears to be giving off this gentle glow.
DAN: Gotcha. Okay. 
TALIESIN: Is it enough to extinguish the torch or no? Is it worth extinguishing the torch?
MATT: It would be considered low light throughout the chamber, so you wouldn't be able to make out
intense detail.
TALIESIN: All right.
JOE: And the quartz altar: can you explain exactly what was in the top of the quartz altar?
MATT: So in the quartz altar, you see it's built in a somewhat circular fashion–
JOE: Like right underneath the oval?
MATT: Right underneath the oval.
JOE: Okay.
MATT: You do see three small concave insets into the top of this altar, two of which—the ones that are closest to you—are about the size of a little larger than a fist, maybe about that big around. 
JOE: Yeah.  Yeah.
MATT: And then the one that's furthest from you is about that wide, roughly the diameter of a basketball.
JESSICA: Can I—am I allowed to roll a—and just say "F it", go for a History check and see if I recognize this at all just by the imagery in the room?
MATT: Sure, go ahead and make a History check.
JESSICA: For fun.
TALIESIN: Since we do know it's Abyssal.
JESSICA: 11.
MATT: 11. 
JESSICA: Yeah.
MATT: It's hard to tell. The obelisks, the design is different than the rest of the chamber's architecture, you've noticed.  Everything here seems to have a very smooth, cylindrical, almost gradual natural feel.  The obelisks are very rigid and the stone appears to be of a different material.
JESSICA: Okay so possibly from somebody else than whoever built the temple.
JOE: How big are they?
MATT: They're about eight foot tall and about four foot wide each.
TALIESIN: I'm going to gingerly start moving towards them, looking, checking the ground for sigils, traps, just looking around as I slowly make my way–
MATT: Investigation check.
TALIESIN: ...but not quite get—I'm not going to get under it or anything. 
JESSICA: I'm going to stand right behind Percy.
TALIESIN: Wow, that's a number. 14. 
MATT: 14, okay. Very carefully stepping in the direction, not directly to the altar which is in the center of these three options—
TALIESIN: Working my way and kind of coil around.
MATT: You do not see any specific markings or portions of the ground that would make you feel that this would be dangerous or that you're upsetting–
TALIESIN: Stains on the altar?
MATT: You do not see any stains on the altar.  The altar itself is coated with a very thick layer of dust; in fact, the quartz color of it you can see kind of at the base of it and the top is a gentle dull gray-brown color from the sediment that's gathered. You do notice of the obelisks, the face of each one that is facing towards the altar does have a very very mild line across the front, a giant square line.
JOE: I'd like to use Divine Sense. I can sense good and evil, type of fiend, celestial, undead or desecration or consecration.
MATT: Okay. You take a moment, you can sense any of those creatures, those creature types?
JOE: Fiend, celestial, undead, and where they are. I can also sense desecration and consecration and good and evil. 
MATT: Okay
DAN: It's coming from inside the altar.
(laughter)
MATT: As you take a moment and close your eyes, Arkhan, you project your vision to ask for divine inspiration via Tiamat, and you feel your essence expand through your closed eyes into the room in the chamber around you.  You sense no particular source of a fiendish, undead, a living essence that would fall into the spectrum of what you can sense.  However, desecration does strongly emanate from the altar in the center of the room.
MARISHA: Okay. 
JOE: "So anyone have like a Detect Magic or Remove Curse?" 
MARISHA: "Yes, I do actually.  Can I, well—I can Dispel Magic." 
DAN: I can make an Arcana check on the altar.
MATT: Sure, go for it.
MARISHA: Can I assist him in any way?
MATT: Yeah, sure. 
DAN: Oh Jesus Christ.
TALIESIN & MARISHA: That's cocked.
MARISHA: That's a 12, it's a 14. 
MATT: Yeah well, we'll say it gives you advantage on the check, so go ahead and roll a second time.
DAN: Thank God. 
MARISHA: Come on... aww, same roll!
DAN: This is the worst die in America.
MARISHA: Do you want another one? I've got a bag.
TALIESIN: Here.
SEVERAL: There you go.
DAN: This is retired.  My god.
MATT: So what'd you roll?
DAN: What did I roll? Let's just say it was an 11. 
MATT: Okay. So you approach the altar focusing strongly on its make to see if there's some sort of magical essence to it, as you can run your fingers along it to feel for any hidden grooves or any sort of inset glyphs that would mark the presence of an enchantment or some sort of element there. You hear a sudden ["foom" sound effect] a large boom that echoes throughout the chamber.  You all glance around and you watch as the grooves, these square-like insets and each of these obelisks suddenly billow with a cloud of dust that is set off as they all [creaking sound effect] fall inwards slamming onto the ground, sending a cloud of dust swirling around you. You instinctually begin to cough and kind of step back as you watch a series of humanoid figures step, one out of each of these three obelisks. Two appear to be human, though their features look somewhat serpentine: their eyes are narrow with yellow iris / slit pupils, their teeth fanged and sharp.  And as they step forward, the two, the third one across the room opens.  This human, you watch, burly and covered in tattoos, thick dark skin, muscular, and where the head would be, one large serpentine snake head. [Hisses] I need you all to roll initiative.
MARISHA: Ohhh!
DAN: Damn.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: Oh that's pretty good!
JESSICA: That's pretty good.
DAN: 20.
(laughter)
JESSICA: Did you really?!
TALIESIN: This is why you use my dice.  My dice.
DAN: Not these cursed relics I brought.
TALIESIN: Not the cursed dice of Wheaton.  None of that.
MARISHA: "Cursed dice of Wheaton."
JOE: Right. All right, well.
TALIESIN: Don't even know why they bothered to put the 20 on it.
DAN: It's just all ones.
MATT: All righty, so...
JESSICA: I got 16... 20.
MATT: 20 for the Headmistress, nice. All righty.
JOE: Three.
MATT: Three, augh!
JOE: It's all right, I'm just gonna kick back and–
TALIESIN: Watch everybody.
JOE: Yeah.
TALIESIN: You paid us good money, we'll do our work.
DAN: We just add our DEX bonus?
MARISHA: Plus initiative.
DAN: Oh, plus initiative. 24.
MATT: Whoa!
MARISHA: Hey!
TALIESIN: Natural 20 on the initiative roll.
DAN: There's a plot twist.
MATT: I know, imagine that.
MARISHA: 19.
MATT: 19. Keyleth is going right after–
TALIESIN: 17 for me.  Yes.
MARISHA: Very good.
MATT: Alrighty, so, as soon as the dust begins to settle the glow still coming from the ceiling, you watch these creatures
begin to stumble out. They immediately draw these scimitar-like blades from their side. At the very top of the round, Dupont, you were the first to react; what are you doing?
DAN: I'd like to pull my crossbow and shoot the snake man in the face.
MATT: Go for it. Go ahead and roll and attack.
MARISHA: Come on...
DAN: Oh Jesus. Yeah, let's, that's plus my Dexterity, that's a seven. 
MATT: That's a seven!
DAN: I don't think that—no, no, plus, excuse me, plus seven. That's a ten. 
MATT: A ten, okay. As you watch this creature emerge, you instinctually pull out your crossbow to fire, but seeing such a terrible entity that resembles you of a time in your childhood when you remember being bit by a snake and the pain of the poison still pulses through your hand—though a memory and not legit there—you suddenly realize snakes are scary. And as you go to fire, your hand shakes ever so slightly and the crossbow fires wide. You see it splinter against one of the nearby pillars, uneffective.
JESSICA: Ah, God.
DAN: "Blast!"
[Cut away]
DAN: If I had to summarize just a core theme for Dupont it would just be "failure". The freedom to fail repeatedly, constantly, in spite of all probabilities, like he was spitting in the face of luck itself and then falling on his face because he slipped in his own spit.
[Back to table]
MATT: All right, that ends your turn, Dupont? Are you gonna stay where you are, you gonna move back?
DAN: I'd like to move back–
MATT: Okay.
DAN: ...about 10 feet or so.
MATT: Okay, so you retreat further into the back of the beginning of the chamber. All right, that brings us to Headmistress.
JESSICA: All right, who am I closest to? Am I close to him at all? 
MATT: You're—you could get close to the snake-headed individual, although you are pretty close to two of the other more humanoid creatures, and one of them would get a strike on you should you rush past.
JESSICA: Can I grab the two—I'm gonna go for it here—can I grab the two of them, smash their heads together, knock them out, and throw them at the beast?
MATT: You can certainly try! 
MARISHA: Yay, Headmistress!
MATT: So as the Headmistress ducks down and goes into a full sprint she darts right between the two creatures as they're beginning to pincer towards the two of you, you and Dupont, who had backed away. You go ahead and reach out to grab both of them. Go ahead and roll an attack. 
JESSICA: Okay. Come on... 
JOE: Good. 
JESSICA: Sixteen. Where am I looking here?
MATT: It'd be plus your attack modifier. 
JESSICA: Oh.  16, so, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23.
MATT: Okay, roll the second attack.
MARISHA: God that's good.
JESSICA: 12. 
MATT: Plus seven. 19. 
JESSICA: Yeah.
MATT: Both of those hit, so go ahead and roll damage twice.
JESSICA: Nice.
MATT: 2d6 plus eight.
JOE: Any more d6s?
JESSICA: Yeah. Thanks guys.
JOE: Plus eight? 
JESSICA: Plus eight.
[Cross chatter]
MATT: So 14 points of damage, well there [calculating quietly], so six and an eight to one. So you reach out, grab both them by the front of their ceremonial robes, pull back and WHACK, slam them both together, their heads crack impacting on both, and you hear this [hissing sound effect] hiss as they both retract from the pain. Feeling the grasp on them they're both pretty heavy–
JESSICA: Yeah.
MATT: ...and knowing in that moment that your strength not quite being strong enough to chuck them, you can then progress if you want to use your bonus action however you see fit.
JESSICA: Oh, one of these?
MATT: Yes.
JESSICA: I'm going to take my Flurry of Blows and are these two guys knocked out then?
MATT: No, they're—
JESSICA: They're still–
MATT: They're they're stronger than you thought they were; they're still standing, and they're hurt, but it looks like they are unhappy with the current circumstance you put them in.
JESSICA: I'm going to shove them over to Dan. No, just kidding.
(laughter)
DAN: "No!"
MARISHA: "You deal with it!"
JESSICA: "Deal with it." I'm going to use my—I am going to use my—
MATT: Flurry of Blows?
JESSICA: ...Flurry of Blows against the two of them. 
MATT: All right.
JESSICA: So one attack each since I've got two attacks.  
MATT: Great, yeah, so you use a ki point, you attack them both one more time.  Roll two more attacks.
JESSICA: Two more, okay. 
MATT: Put a d20. 
JESSICA: Oh sorry. Oh shit.
MATT: All right, six plus seven? That still hits with a 13.
JESSICA: Yay!  Nice.
MATT: Roll your second strike?
JESSICA: Come on. 
TALIESIN: 5th level.
MARISHA: 5th level.
JESSICA: 14.
MATT: Yeah, both hit, so go ahead and roll two d6s once more.
JESSICA: God damnit.
MATT: Minus 10 and minus six. So after you knock them both their heads together, you get down and then do a jumping spin kick—whack, whack—clocking them both in the head in a full, like, hurricane kick, Ryu-style attack. As you land, they're both looking a bit dazed, but aggressively looking like they're ready to bear down on you with
their scimitars. You still have movement if you want to get away, but they'll both get a strike on you.
JESSICA: Ah, come on!
MATT: Or do you want to stay put and just fend them off as they come?
DAN: Just, just flex on 'em.
JESSICA: I'm gonna stay put.  I'm staying put.  F it.
MATT: Okay. All righty. Staying put.  That brings us to...
MARISHA: "What? What?"
MATT: ...Keyleth.
MARISHA: Okay, how far away is snake creature?
MATT: The head?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: From you currently, from where you're standing, about 50 feet?
MARISHA: About 50 feet. Let me go ahead and I'm going to move up a little bit–
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: ...and I want to cast Faerie Fire over where the snake creature is. No one else is
really around her, right? 
MATT: Currently, no.
[Cross-chatter to confirm]
MATT: Okay. So you go ahead and cast it—
MARISHA: Is there any way that I could also get the humanoids in the cusp too? I don't want to get Headmistress though.
MATT: How big is the space on Faerie Fire? 
MARISHA: 20 feet.
MATT: 20 feet? You might be able to get one, not both, because you're going to have to angle the cube at a point to catch the two– 
MARISHA: Okay, I'll get another one.
JOE: You have a cube that shoots Faerie Fire?
MARISHA: I have a faerie—yeah, it's like the Tesseract but sparkle bomb.
(laughter)
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: It's like Groot, third act. 
MATT: Dexterity saving throw from both. What's your spell DC? Under the attacks area. 
MARISHA: Oh, you put it under the attacks. Oh, 16. 
JESSICA: Wait, so we have four right here.
MATT: Nope! And no, they both fail their Dexterity saving throws.
MARISHA: [Poof!] Glitter bomb!
MATT: So you watch us as Keyleth takes a few steps forward.  The light in the central chamber kind of, you know, glowing on her form. She puts her hands out and as she extends her fingers you watch a burst of purplish druid nature energy just scatter out like a burst of glitter, and as it coalesces around the form of these two creatures it sinks to them, and as it does you see bright purple light emit from them, making them both shining targets for anybody that wishes to strike them, so all attacks against them have advantage.
DAN: Tight. 
[Cut away]
MARISHA: I love Faerie Fire, by the way; it's a great spell. But yeah, that was all: she kind of just went, [poof] "You guys, you guys go, yeah." That was it. Yeah, it was just like a Michaels craft store disaster, that's all I was. It was good.
[Back to table]
JOE: Okay. 
MATT: All righty. For as long as you maintain concentration. So Keyleth, that ends your turn?
MARISHA: Yes, I'm going to kind of step back a little bit towards Dupont.
MATT: Okay.
DAN: "Hello."
MARISHA: "Oh, hi."
MATT: The first of the two more-human of the creatures takes its turn. The one that got bludgeoned by you and is not affected by Faerie Fire is going to attempt to strike at you with its scimitar twice. That is a 14 to hit, what's your armor class? 
JESSICA: Which, armor class? 17.
MATT: 17. You watch the blade come wide and you duck low. Second strike does hit you.
JESSICA: I got a question.
JOE: It's a good roll.
JESSICA: I have an Evasion: when an attack requires a Dexterity saving throw, you only take half damage, instead take no damage?
MATT: Correct, that's only against effects that you require a saving throw.
JESSICA: Well, shoot.
(laughter)
MATT: That's all good. 
JESSICA: I tried.
MATT: You do suffer seven points of damage from the scimitar striking you.
JESSICA: Okay. So what is that?
MATT: All righty. The other one's gonna rush towards you, Dupont. That is a 12 to hit. What's your armor class?
DAN: 16.
MATT: Sick. This one rushes past; you do get an attack of opportunity if you want to punch the one that's rushing. 
JESSICA: Yeah, I'll take that.
DAN: Punch him!
JESSICA: I'm gonna punch him. Can I use yours?
JOE: You gotta roll the 20.
JESSICA: Wait, the 20, right? 
MATT: Yeah.
JESSICA: 10. 
MATT: That'll hit. Go ahead and roll 1d6, add four. 
JESSICA: Ugh, one. 
MATT: Plus four though. That actually, that actually kills that one–
(cheering)
MATT: ...as it goes rushing towards Dupont, you watch as it darts off, you spin around and clock it in the back of the head with the back fist. As you do, you watch it just go unconscious and go face down to the ground, skidding into the dust.
JESSICA: Perfect. 
MATT: So that ends that one against you, that one's finished there, no attack. That brings us to Percival.
TALIESIN: All right. I'm going to spin around to the giant creature that just got hit by Faerie Fire–
MARISHA: Jesus Christ. I keep dropping shit. 
TALIESIN: And drop a pencil. "Leave the head on one of them, I'm going to want to dissect it later." And I'm going to stick  the torch in the ground with my bonus action and take two shots at the heart of the big creature to try and slow it down.
MATT: Go for it. You have advantage on these shots.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah! Oh, in that case I got a fancy—I'm gonna use fancy double... so shot number one, natural 20 on both rolls! 
JESSICA: Nice!
(cheering)
DAN & JESSICA: What?
MARISHA: Oh, it totally is!
DAN: He's a witch! What is a gun?!
TALIESIN: Natural 20 on both rolls.
[Cut away]
TALIESIN: Okay, so I may have, I may have had advantage on a shot thanks to some Faerie Fire that Keyleth threw and I may have rolled two natural 20s on that; I've never had that happen before. I feel like I should—that should be something. I feel like I may make a little plaque or something. That felt very good; it's all downhill from here. Life is downhill from here.
[Back to table]
MATT: Okay, that was the first shot.
TALIESIN: I feel like, okay, I feel like I should get a—I want to, I want a bonus die in our other game later.
MATT: Just for that one?  You've rolled enough 20s...
TALIESIN: All right, fair point. 
MATT: Roll your second attack.
TALIESIN: And second attack.
MARISHA: Do it again, do it again!
DAN: Double ones.
TALIESIN: Does not happen. Still a great—26 for the other one.
MATT: Yeah, both hit. Go ahead and roll damage for the first strike.
TALIESIN: That's, okay, and that's double die?
MATT: Double dice, yeah.
TALIESIN: Wow. Oh, this is adorable. And that's seven, that's 12 points for the first hit.
MATT: All righty.
TALIESIN: And 14 points for the other one.
MATT: Nice! So this is against the large snake creature. You watch as the gunfire [blasting sound effects] echoes loudly, causing this burst of fire and smoke out the front of the barrel. Both of these wounds sink into the chest of the creature [wet sound effects] as the blood splooge out of both parts of the impact.
MARISHA: "Splooge"?
DAN: That's what I saw; what did you see?
MARISHA: I mean, no, yeah.
JOE: That's a descriptive term.
TALIESIN: I'm gonna suddenly realize that I'm very tiny; I'm gonna slowly start backing up after doing that and I realized that I'm a big target.
MATT: All right, that ends your go. It is now the snake creature's turn. You watch now: its lower torso, which was currently blocked by the dust, you see is also serpentine; it just has the upper torso of a humanoid. [hissing sound] It marks its way around, and actually, seeing you as the most dangerous entity in the room, goes heading in your direction, Arkhan.
JOE: "I'm flattered."
(laughter)
MATT: It's going to go for a bite attack against you; that is a natural 20. 
TALIESIN: You'll be fine, you're gonna be fine.
MARISHA: Look at, he looks at you...
JOE: I'm gonna be fine, but...
TALIESIN: I'm just happy with the 20, I'm happy with the 20. 
MARISHA: He's immediately like, "This is your fault."
TALIESIN: This is entirely my fault.
MARISHA: "This is the balance from the karma."
DAN: "We will save you in song."
JOE: I'm actually happy about that; I'll tell you why in a second.  Go ahead. 
MATT: Okay, so you take, that is nine points of piercing damage–
JOE: And?
MATT: And seven points of poison damage as the fangs dig into the side of your scales and you feel it pulse through your blood system. 
JOE: Okay.
MATT: And it's going to go ahead and take a swing of the scimitar as it backs up as well.  That is going to be a 21 to hit.
JOE: I have a 21 armor class.
MATT: It just barely strikes you–
(sympathetic "ooh" and "aww")
JOE: What?
MATT: ...with seven points of slashing damage as it streaks across the front of your armor; you see the sparks go flying off in the metal-on-metal clash. Not enough to actually physically wound you, but enough to at least push you back and wind you slightly.
JOE: Okay.
MATT: It's now your turn.
JOE: Now he's officially pissed me off.  Well actually, well, he hit me, and I'd like to Hellish Rebuke.
(cheering and laughter)
MATT: Nice.
JOE: So I'm going to point my finger and the creature that damaged me is momentarily surrounded by hellish flames; the creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. It will take 2d10 fire damage on a failed save, half as much on a successful.
MATT: Well, it rolled a nine on its DC so I don't think, I don't think it succeeds, so go ahead.
JOE: 2d10.
TALIESIN: I love Hellish Rebuke.
DAN: [inaudible] Hellish Rebuke.
MARISHA: It's so good.
JOE: "You just fucked with the wrong guy." We can say "fuck" on the Internet, right?
(general agreement)
TALIESIN: That's the whole point of the Internet.
JOE: Okay, great.
JESSICA: That's my default.
JOE: That's going to be 12 points of fire damage.
MATT: Oof, nice. All righty, and now it's your turn.
JOE: Now it's my turn.
MATT: As it rushes up, you throw your hand out front and watch as flames suddenly burst around its body; the infernal energy granted to you by Tiamat causing the front of its torso to suddenly be singed. It lands right in front of you, you know, pulls back to go for another strike. What are you doing? 
JOE: Okay, I'm going to swing Bone Cleaver, my battleaxe.
MATT: Go for it.
JOE: That's like literally on the line.
MATT: Yeah, go ahead and roll again, that's a cocked die.
TALIESIN: Cocked die.
JOE: Cocked die?
TALIESIN: Yeah it's just fun to say.
TALIESIN, DAN, JOE: Cocked die.
JOE: Again! 
MATT: Another cocked die. Try that again.
JOE: Fuh! Ah, okay, that's going to be a 13.
MATT: 13 still hits, even with a four.
MARISHA: Eyy!
JOE: Whoa. And I'm going to tack on Divine Smite. 
MATT: Divine Smite, so additional 2d8, nice.
JOE: So that would be... 2d8 plus another—could I borrow a die from someone?
TALIESIN: Yeah. 
DAN: You probably want his.
TALIESIN: Here.  Have a, have a...
JOE: Okay, actually, yeah, no, sure. [calculating] That's going to be 25 points again. 
MATT: 25!
TALIESIN: Wow.
DAN: Jesus.
MATT: All right, so as you arc down with your Bone Cleaver axe, you watch as the energy that splits off the front of the blade, starting white, passes through all the chromatic colors as Tiamat's anger now forces itself through the blade as well. It smacks into the chest of the snake creature; as it does, the rib cage seems to crack before it even touches the
blade, the energy actually separating the flesh and bone. You hear it screech out into the cavern air [howl of pain] as you bisect it in half.
JESSICA: (sound of disgust)
MATT: And it just slumps to the ground, no longer moving.
(cheering)
MATT: You still have movement and another attack.
JOE: How far am I from the other guy? 
MATT: You're about 10 feet from him.
JOE: Oh, perfect. Okay, let's go for it.
MATT: All righty, you rush up to the last standing humanoid snake individual.
MARISHA: Get it, get it.
JOE: No cocked die. 18 plus nine, that's 27. 
MATT: 27. Go ahead and roll damage.
JOE: Okay.
MATT: This one has already been punched to shit by our monk.
JOE: 17.
MATT: 17. 
TALIESIN: Wow, that's a lot.
MATT: And with that, as this other creature–
JESSICA: It's dust.
MATT. Yeah, this other creature's been harrying the monk. You rush up and just cleave its head off at an angle, taking off part of the shoulder as it kind of turns around just in time to [stabbed exhalation sound] and pull back to the ground, no longer moving.
JESSICA: I'm standing here, going (laughter).
DAN: "I think I'm feeling that poison. I saw a bunch of lights and everything turned into a fine red mist."
MARISHA: "No, that actually happened, Dupont!"
DAN: "What?!" 
MARISHA: "I know!" 
MATT: The chamber shudders once more. [impact sound effect] 
TALIESIN: "None of this is useful."
MATT: You watch as the convex sections on the altar all of a sudden begin to fill with a green fluid with each death of these creatures.
MARISHA: "Aw, what?"
MATT: As they all come to fruition, you watch as the altar shudders and begins to lower below. You kind of stand up and look off the side, and you watch: there's a cylindrical chamber below with four additional pillars that travel about 60 feet down to the base. Looks like the interior there is pitch black however as it just dissipates beyond the glowing light of the stone above you.
JOE: Okay.
DAN: I'd like to peer into the darkness.
MATT: Make a Perception check.
JOE: Before you do that can I just, I'm going to pray to Tiamat to heal my, heal 13 points of my damage. 
MATT: Go for it, but you 
JOE: I can use hit dice to heal myself.
MATT: Yeah, you can use your hit dice to heal yourself so you can just go ahead, use a couple of those.
TALIESIN: "There's nothing salvageable in any of those bodies, is there?" 
JESSICA: Wait, what am I doing?
MATT: Currently, no, other than the scimitars they had, unfortunately, they weren't really dressed for a night out on the town.
TALIESIN: "I wanted to make boots."
MARISHA: Snake-skin boots.
JESSICA: Sorry, which one am I doing?
MATT: This.
JESSICA: Ugh, jeez. Two.  Right, so two...
MATT: Two plus two is four.  You can use another one if you like.
JESSICA: Oh yeah?
MATT: Yep, there you go.
JESSICA: Nice.
MATT: That's tight. All right, as you guys complete your rest, take a moment to bandage your wounds, kind of take the essence of what you have at your disposal, the darkened chamber lies below you. Over a short time you managed to find your way to the base using whatever rope and items you have your disposal in your general traveling pack. Down inside you now see those strange symbols that you saw scrolled on the wall earlier completely surround this chamber from top to bottom. It is just an endless display of these Abyssal symbols and "siggles". Sigils, if you will. Happened again.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I wasn't going to say anything.
MATT: I know.
DAN: It's the Abyssal pronunciation; you'd know if you studied for it.
MARISHA: Yeah, exactly.
JOE: It's an antiquated pronunciation.
TALIESIN: You can take the boy out of the Abyss, you can't take the Abyssal out of the boy.
MARISHA: It's like "Barthelona".
JOE: The king says it's siggle.
(laughter)
MATT: City of Doors, guys... The somewhat cool air of the chamber suddenly grows chilled and you all witness as the air begins to shimmer and an apparition of a white-haired, mature woman in crimson sleeveless robes appears drifting roughly 10 feet above you in the room.
DAN: "Well hello there... milady."
(laughter)
JOE: I'd like to use Divine Sense. Good, evil, fiend, celestial, undead, desecration, consecration.
MATT: You do get the essence of undead strongly from this entity. As the apparition floats there above, you see it stare down and saying, the voice seeming to emanate from a sourceless place in the air around you, "You enter here and beyond the domain of the serpent. You wander these hallowed halls at the behest of the Scaled Tyrant and you are not welcome. What business have you in our nesting chambers?"
JESSICA: Oh geez, there's so many. There's gotta be so many.
JOE: "If you have any questions, go ahead, because I'm about to pull something out of the hat unless you want to ask a question first."
TALIESIN: "I'm just hoping we live to get paid at the moment." 
DAN: "We were told to retrieve Histina Aguilera's treasure."
(laughter)
MATT: Roll a Constitution saving throw.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
JESSICA: You're getting punished.
DAN: Let's see, 13.
MATT: Okay. You watch as the spirit turns, the eyes that suddenly went from like a cold darkness to a bright vibrant white lock onto Dupont, raises a hand and suddenly you feel this dark energy cascade through your body as your muscles suddenly wither and you fall to one knee. You are weakened at the moment. 
TALIESIN: "I feel like this is something—do you know who this is?" 
JOE: Do you—how big is this room?
MATT: It's about 25 feet across on all sides, it's cylindrical.
JOE: Okay, I'm going to attempt to Control the Undead.
MATT: Okay.
JOE: Up to 30 feet, it's a Wisdom save.
MATT: Wisdom save, (chuckles) this will be interesting. That is a 12. What is your spell DC?
MARISHA: Come on.
JOE: I'm pretty sure it's a 13.
(cheering)
JOE: She's mine for 24 hours.
DAN: "It's a good thing I distracted her."
JESSICA: "Good job Dupont, it's all because of you!"
DAN: "[inaudible] was still a dunk."
(laughter)
MATT: The spirit's hand drops, the weaken curse still crackling through your dwarven friend, but the eyes go from the
vibrant, bright, burning white to a dull blue as the head turns towards you. "I am the Caregiver, long watching the Cloaked Serpent's children sleep until our epoch begins. I am at your service."
JOE: "We heard there's something of great value in this vault. Take us to it."
MATT: You watch as the eyes, the blue turns to a dark purple, and you feel the essence reaching just past your brow and it would bother you if you didn't know that this creature was bound to your service through your divine chains. As it withdraws: "I see: the golden wreath." The ghost seems to snap the fingers and you hear rustling chains from above in the darkness at the top of the chamber, and a slight sneer. [pushed air sound effect] The wind begins to kick up and the sand and dust in the room swirls around you.  You kind of guard your eyes momentarily as you watch a large winged creature [impact sound] land on the ground. You see its long, muscular, lion-like body combined with two giant leather wings, the head humanoid with the jaw wide open, drooling, with rows and rows of teeth, and there around its throat you see the large golden-thorned wreath of gems that you saw in your dream. The creature, its chain kind of dangling and broken, turns. [snarling sound] It snarls, but the ghost holds its hand up. "Take your charge."
JOE: I approach the creature and I take the wreath from around its neck.
MATT: As your hands reach out and touch, you watch its eyes the side lids sliding close and open. It growls [growling sound], but it does not seem to assault or attack as you pull the wreath from around its neck. It withdraws a few feet. [more growling]
JOE: I place the wreath around my neck.
MATT: As you set it down, the spirit begins to grin, and you feel suddenly the thorns, much like the device that entered this temple, extend and [stabbing sound] pierce into the sides of your throat, your clavicle—some of it actually going past the neck armor. You suffer 12 points of piercing damage, but you feel also at the same time this cold essence kind of curl over your spine. As it does, you close your eyes and open them, and the colors of the chamber are twice as vibrant. You look around in each of your compatriots you can actually see the essence of warmth off their body.
MARISHA: It gave you snake eyes.
MATT: You glance around and turn. You guys look and you can see the eyes of your companion Arkhan now have even a further confirmed genuine black slit, a greenish yellow color within them, and the gemstones begin to pulse as you feel the energy of Tiamat glow within each section of the wreath, and as it does the strength fills you and your breath grows warmer, the air seems more alive, and you feel rejuvenated, instilled with the essence of your deity.
JOE: Am I—do I feel out of control at all?
MATT: You've been in control; this is just, you're un—you're not fully aware of what has been imparted upon you.
JOE: Okay.
MATT: It does not feel [inaudible].
JOE: But I don't feel a compulsion to attack anyone in my party.
MATT: No. 
JOE: No. Okay. 
DAN: Oh thank God.
JESSICA: Well, shit.
JOE: Do I sense that there's any sort of control over this creature, or is the creature through this undead that I've taken control of?
MATT: So you turn towards and exert your will on the manticore? 
JOE: Yes.
MATT: Okay. As you go ahead and focus towards it, [stomping sounds] the creature, its giant spiked tail swinging behind it, comes up towards you [growling] and lowers its head right below you to the ground.
JOE: I get on its back.
MATT: Grabbing the chain that is dangled around its throat—
MARISHA: It's going full Falcor!
MATT: ...and it lifts up now fully, its torso in front, you watch as Arkhan now stands amongst his manticore mount.
JESSICA: I'm jealous!
JOE: Okay.
[Cut away]
MATT: There were a number of situations that were handled in ways I didn't expect. For one, the manticore was intended to be an actual boss encounter once they had talked to and spurred the ire of the ghost, or proven worthy to try and earn the use of this thorned wreath. However, I didn't consider the Oathbreaker power to be able to Control Undead, to roll just under the DC for the spell, and then command it to present it to him. So that was a perfect example of why I love D&D. 
[Back to table]
MARISHA: "I feel like you got your money's worth, good sir."
DAN: "So I just get poisoned, he gets a manticore?" 
TALIESIN: "You got a door; you're just gonna have to figure out how to get it home." 
MARISHA: "We also got like a few hundred gold pieces."
DAN: Just snake blood.
MARISHA: Yeah.
JOE: Now, in terms of the rest of the mission, is there someone waiting for this wreath?
MATT: No, the divine images—
JOE: The divine images.
MATT: ...were intended for you to just retrieve this. You have nothing that's come to you before.
JOE: So I had these dreams, these visions. 
MATT: Yes.
JOE: And here I am sitting on top of a manticore.
MATT: Yep. 
JOE: In control of a ghost?
MATT: For the next 24 hours.
JOE: Let's party.
(cheering)
MARISHA: "Dreams do come true!"
[Cut away]
JOE: But for me the big highlight was I Controlled the Undead. I mean, I wound up controlling this specter that had control of the manticore so because of that I then was able to take the wreath off the manticore's neck and stuck it on my neck, which initially I thought it was gonna kill me. But after the initial bleeding I took control of this beast, so it was kind of a weird, like, lucky lucky roll. Weird sort of string of abilities and then wound up with this great beast, so this is definitely a memorable one. Oh and also I beheaded the yuan-ti serpent people. So that was fun, let's not forget about that.
[Back to table]
JESSICA: Who can summon some mead?
JOE: How many people can fit on the back of a manticore?
MATT: Actually you can—thankfully, you have a rather diminutive and lightweight party. You can uncomfortably get your compatriots onto the back of the creature as it lifts up, its wings flapping... 
JESSICA: Dupont falls off.
DAN: Probably!
TALIESIN: I kinda want to see that roll.
MATT: It slams into the stone of the ceiling as the chamber entrance for the altar was not quite large enough to get all of you through, but it does manage to break through the stone from underneath as it coasts up. [heavy wing flapping sounds] It travels down the hallway of which you guys came, bursting out from under the front doorway leading out to the sunlight of the Ank'Harel Desert, over the sands. The warmth of the sunlight is welcome as you now look, the spiritual entity trailing behind you trying to keep up, as there are heads on top of the manticore.
MARISHA: "Spring Break 1213!"
DAN: "We're gonna live forever!"
TALIESIN: "Car only holds five, you're going to have to take a Lyft or something. I'm sorry, see you there, it'll be great."
(laughter)
MATT: And with that, you found the attributed artifact sent in your way by Tiamat, and apparently a new friend.
JOE: Yes!
(cheering and applause)
MATT: Well done! That was unexpected. 
MARISHA: Arkhan!
DAN: Yeah, most encounters with manticores don't go that well.
MATT: No, that was a completely bypassed boss fight there. 
MARISHA: Yeah?
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Oh really?
MATT: Yeah, didn't know you could Control Undead.
MARISHA: I feel like you basically got the "How do you want to do this?".
MATT: Essentially, but like, like, the friendly...
MARISHA: Other way.
TALIESIN: "I wanna hug it out. It's gonna be great. We're hugging it out."
JOE: In an evil, evil way.
MATT: Well done!
(applause)
[Cut away]
MATT: As Arkhan and his mercenary companions carefully ride the manticore over the hot desert sands of Marquet, what does the future hold for keeping such a monstrosity under control, and what is the essence of this artifact that Tiamat has brought Arkhan to?
[Music]